Maraimalaiyam - 33

(A commemorative publication of centenary celebrations of Pure Tamil Movements)
	Can Hindi be the Lingua 	France of  India?
	Saiva Siddhanta as a Philosophy 	of Practical Knowledge
	Prefaces of Maraimalaiyadigal

Author
Mummozhi Chemmal 
Marimalaiyadigal

Editor
A.  Mathivanan


Publisher
G. Elavazhagan

Tamizhmann


First Edition	:	2015		
Pages	:	328		
Price 	:	410/-		

Maraimalaiyam - 33
Author
Marimalaiyadigal

Editor
A. Mathivanan

Publisher
G. Elavazhagan

Published by 
Tamizhmann

No. 2, Singaravelar Street,
T.Nagar, Chennai - 600 017.
Ph: 24339030, Cell: 9444410654
E-mail: elavazhagantm@gmail.com
 Paper : 16.0 G   Maplitho    Size : 1/8 Demmi   Font : 11.5  
  Pages : 328   Binding: Perfect   Copies : 1000  
  Book Design : V. Chitra & Mrs. Kayalvizhi 
 Wrapper Design : Kavi Baskar    Printers : Venkateswara Offset, 
Thousand Lights, Chennai - 600 006,  &
 	Process India, Thiruvallikeni - 600 005.
Preface
Maraimalai Adigal who sowed the seed for the Pure Tamil movement was a multi-faced personality. He was a Professor, Scholar, Researcher,  Linguist, Orator, Literary critic, Author, Journalist, Nature cure expert, Leader of movements, Printer, Publisher, Psycho analayst, Reformer, Philosopher and Saint. It is  rare to find a scholar in the whole of ninteenth and twentieth centuries who could be equated with him.
As a scholar par excellence in Tamil, English and Sanskrit, he was the inspiring source for Devaneya Pavanar (1902 - 1981) who spent all his life to establish that Tamil was the primary classical language of the world which could exist independently without the support of any other language.
He worked with a single - minded devotion to establish the supremacy of the Tamil language. He put in his best efforts to propagate to the world that Tamil as a classical language deserved the place which the linguists of  the world had offered to other classical languages such as Greek, Latin, Hebrew etc. He left no branch of knowledge untouched, be it, literature or linguistics, human physiology or psychology, philosophy or Ethics. With his mastery over Tamil, English and Sanskrit he could establish success in any field he ventured to tread upon. 
As an avid researcher, his findings paved the way for future researchers. The breadth, depth and length of his research could be evidenced from his masterpiece, ‘Manicka Vasakar Varalarum Kalamum’. (The History and Times of St. Manicavasakar) It stands a testimony to his methodology and establishing the facts with irrefutable evidences.
To put it in a nutshell, he was a reformer and a reformist movement by himself. He was all against casteism and he condemned it as a perpetual evil perpetrated by the Aryans. He put forward very strong ideas against casteism in his Tamil work ‘Sadhi Vetrumaiyum Poli Saivarum’ & ‘Seerthirutha Kurippukal’. To a great extent, the views of Maraimalai Adigal formed the basis for the Justice parties and the Dravidian parties to work for the renaissance of Tamil language and the upliftment of Tamil race. He pioneered the movements such as Pure Tamil Movement, Anti-Hindi Agitation, Saivite Samaj, etc. Among them the Pure Tamil movement has had the distinction of having a triumphant history of a century (1916-2016).
He could well be termed a personal medical counsellor to anybody who has studied his Tamil work, ‘Makkal Noorandu Uyir Vazhkai’ (மக்கள் நூறாண்டு உயிர் thœ¡if). As a dutiful mentor, he would give out the tips on wellness and specific methods of treatment for  various diseases only after due testing on himself and members of his family like Roentgen, the inventor of X-ray. He made it a norm to preach the principles of life only after he practised them in his own life.
Tamizhmozhi Kavalar Thiru G. Elavazhagan, the founder of Tamilmann Pathippagam has devoted his life for the cause of Tamil. Starting with the publication of complete works of Devaneya Pavanar marking his centenary celebrations in the year 2002 till the current project of bringing out the entire works of Maraimalai Adigal, embarking on marathan projects has become his way of life. To mention a few, the complete writings of  Thiru.Vi.Ka, Na.Ci. Kandaiya, Saminatha Sarma, Avvai Duraisami, Navalar Venkatasami Nattar, Vidhwan Gopalaiyar, Sami Chidhambaranar, Pavendar Bharathidasan have been published by him as classic prints for the benefit of the Tamil community at home and abroad.
A word of apology: Inspite of all our strenuous efforts, some essays had to be left incomplete since the old volumes were subjected to the ravages of nature and time. And we are unable to  retrieve the volumes of ‘Oriental Mystic Myna’ (bi monthly -1908) Sure, if found at a later date, they will be incorporated in the editions to come.
It is our earnest desire that the treasures of Maraimalai Adiagal bequeathed upon the Tamil readers, teachers, scholars and students be utilised in full measure in order to reach the horizons of wisdom.
Mathivanan
Editor

CAN HINDI BE THE LINGUA FRANCA 
OF INDIA?


publishers’ note
Lemuria, a continent south of the Kumari river and mountain, submerged in the Indian Ocean, was the original home of man. Tamil was the language spoken by the people there. God Siva, in the form of Sivalinga, representing the tapering tongue of fire or Light was worshipped by the Lemurians. When Lemuria got submerged, the people there escaped to the north, east and west of India and the world. So, Tamil, the Tamils and their religion spread through the length and breadth of the world. Now these facts, testified to by great Historians and archeologists, have to be borne in mind in attempting to forge the unity of India and the world. Now these facts, testified to by great Historians and archeologists, have to be borne in mind in attempting to forge the unity of India and the world by the adoption of a commn tongue for India (and the world).
Hindi as a hybried, upstart language with no reputable ancient literature or vocabulary of its own, is unfit for adoption as the Lingua  Franca of India. These points are made clear by the great Tamil, Sanskrit and English scholar Maraimalai Adigal in his Tamil booklet entitled ‘Can Hindi be the Lingua Franca of India?’ which now has been translated lilnto English by Thiru R. S. Pillai Tamil Research Institute, Madras.
Besides, extracts from Maraimalai Adigal’s introduction to a Treatise in English entitled ‘India’s Language Problem ‘ by the great Tamil, Hindi and English scholar K.Appadurai Pillai, M.A.,L.T. Visharad (Hindi), along with extracts from the writings of C. Rajagopalachari, K.M. Cariappa and others are given at the end of the booklet for the benefit of the readers.;l
We express our deep debt of gratitude to our revered Yogi Shuddhananda Bharatiar, for his valuable and erudite foreword contributed to this brochure.
It is hoped this prublication will be welcomed lby the public at this crucial lhour of India’s Language Problem and National unity.







universal expression of tamil
Sir Maraimalai Adigal (Swami Vedachalam) is an embodiment of the ancient Tamil culture and civilisation.  He was a strong defend of  Tamil.  He ddistributed a powerful pamphlet challenging Hindi in 1937 when it greatly gained the favour of the Madras State.  The pamphlet then in Tami, now in English puts forth strong arguments againsst forced Hindi in Non-Hindi regions. “Hindi off” is its refrain. The pamphlet maintains the right of Tamil to become our Lingua Franca and insists upon the use of English as the link language until Tamil reaches its deserved height of being the national language. It is a bold challenge to Hindi claims.
I go a step further and maintain with all the force of my linguistic knowledge that Tamil deserves to be the Lingua Universum. It is the most ancidnt living language still developing and expanding. It is andelastic language capable of standing upon its own merit.  It does not shine in borrowed feathers.  It has the vitality to express all branches of modern Sciences clearly.
We have how a very wide circle of poets, writers, novelists, journalists, thinkers, dramatists, essayists, scientists, painters, sculptors, philosophers, linguists and oliticians who are harbingers of a vernal renaissance fragrant with the blossoms of love and beauty, and fruits of hope and wisdom. 
The tpwering glory of Tamil literature is the Tirukkural of Saint Valluvar, the universal lawgiver. The only drawback is that we oftern fail to recognise our own genius. and encourage our great souls by honouring them properly.  
Literature is the life-force of a nation.  It is an efflorescence of the inner urge of the time spirtit.  The poet’s word os the breath of national re-birth.  The life of a nation is ensould in the words of the poet.  A drop of ink from his pen makes thousands thind.  An inspired writer gives inexhaustible energy to generations.  We have a galaxy of such immortals even today just as we had yesterday.  We ust find out genius and bring it to open light and encourage it.  We iust not allow deservin pens to starve in obscure corners.  Tamil has the merit of possessing quality books by inspired authors long before European classical autors were born.  The antiquity of Tamil goes as far as 9000 B.C.  The lost Lemurian glory was richly compensted bu the Kapatapuram high-lights of literature.  Mohenjo-dara and Harappa excavations bring to lght a brilliant evidence of Tamil culture even in the fifth millennium B.C.  Considering its great past, its living dynamism, its mellifuluours elasticity of expression, its fertility to produce new works in tune with the time spirit, taking itto consideration its vitality to measure the heights of Scientific tehnology, we can very well maintain the invincible capacity of Tamil to develop into a unintain the invincible capacity fo Tamil to develop into a universal language enen like English, French, German and Russian which hold sway over the modern world of scientific intellectualism.  The only thing is that we must look forward and go onwad from 1970 without merely gloating over a few books of old.
St.  Valluvar says:  ‘As moves the world, so move the wise in tune with changing times and ways.’
The modern savants Illk forward to an intellignet, emotional co-existance and intergration and to create one humanity in one world.  The old conceptions of walled creeds and sectarian dogmas have become defunct.  Even our ancient poets sang for Ulagu the entire universe and manknd and not for a sect or division of mankind.  We must buld up our literature in the light of modern collectivism.  If Tamil comes forward to build up literature of universal signigicance it is sure to sore higher and higher in fame and name and reach the eminence of English.  English is a must; we must learn English or we will be back-numbers.  English is a power all over the world.  No language shall underming it.  Tamil must rise to its level and vigour.  Then we can hold our own against Hindi from which we have nothing to learn.
Behold how French has develop[ed into a world language, an international diplomatic language.  It developed from rustic Latin and vulgar Roman language spoken by the soldires of Julius Ceasar.
Behold how the Russian language has developed after the October revolution of 1917.  Even Usbeg language has a big library of Modern Science.  Tamil must measure its steps and walk abreast with the progressive atomic age and produce original books worthy of being translated into foreign languages.  I am silently doing this seevive day and night.  My Bharata Sakti in English translation has been apreciated by Savants of the West.  We must come forward to honour genius and maintain our states quo before the rush of modernism.  Then only we can answer the challenge of  Hindi or English or any other language.
I have myself written Science books in Tamil.  It is the only language that can be spoken smoothly without wasting breath in harsh aspirants.  In minimum letters it expresses maximum ideas.  Under the aegis of the awakened Tamil Nadu, writers and fighters for the rights of  Tamil culture are building up a better future for our beloved Mother tongue.  The wanton casteism has disappeared into the limb of the Renaissant.  Spirit which marches head-erect towards a collective life of the human aggregate based upon the Soul that is one in all. The old casto-sectarian bias has no meaning to the progressive modern thinkers and men of action.  That chapter of caste-pride is closed and  we need not open it again.
I wish that the facts expressed in this brochure will go to inspire Tamils to grow from strength to strength until the Tamil language becomes the Lingua Universum.  Let us broaden our views, sstrengthen our sinews and omnify our aspirations and conqure littleness by our largeness!
Yoga Samaj,
Adyar				                                              YOGI SHUDDHANANDA BHARATL
18-12-68

can Hindi be the lingua franca of india? 
 Many of the Scholars of Northern India and some of the South, working for the uplift of our country opine that Hindi spoken in the north of India in varying forms in varided places, should be made the common language of all the Indian people.
The have besides strated Hindi Schools hare and there.  Before embarking on a project, we should investigate and find out whether the thing to be unertaken possesses the necessary qualities that could confer any benefit on the people amongst whom it is to be introduced and what the condition of the prople is.  To launch the projet after such investigation is a mark of wisdom and true patriotism.  We shall first examine the worth and suitability of Hindi for adoption as the lingua france of India.
ANCIENT CULTURAL LANGUAGES
The main object of a language is to serve as a medium of expression of one’s thoughts to another withour impediments.  The lanuages in vogue in the several parts of the glbbe are, according to linguistic scholars, nine hundred and ninety nine.  Of these nearly thousand tongues, only very few are both spoken and written; of these few, a less number are possessed of grammar and literature, of thes still very few are ancient tongues. The ancient languages that possess all these three essential qualities are Tamil, Eguptian, Chaldian, Hebrew, Mexican, Aryan, Greek, Latin and Arabic.  These tongues were spoken and written bh the ancient cultured people.  They possessed works of grammar and literature which could at all times confer sweetness and light on those studying them.  But all these tongues except Tamil have now ceased to be languages may give one a knowledge of the past, but it cannot confer on the benefit of converse in those tongues with others anywhere on earth or confer other benefits in life.
TAMIL AND THE NEW TONGUES
But only or precious Tamil Tongue, from of old to this day, serves as the spoken and written language of many crores of  people in India, Ceylon, Burma, Malaysia Singapore, Fiji, Mauritius, South Africa etc.  Books of Gaammar, Moraliry, Virtue, Wealth, Governance, Epic Poetry, Lyric Poetry, Stories, Mathematics, Astonomy, Medicine, Science, Mytholgy etc.  have been written by great scholats in the Tamil tongue, and these confer benefits on peole in this life and the life to come.  The Tamil tongue possesses besides potentialities of a living and developing language, capable of giving expression to the highest and the minutest thought in the simplest manner and in the shoutes compass (i.e. Kural).
But the other languages in vogue in the far-flung earth came into existence five or six hundred years ago, some of them only having books of Grammar, Literature, Art etc.  Worth the name for the last two or three centuries.  The beauty and richness of these new tongues are no match for the ancient Tamil tongue of rare worth and rarer  works.  So it is incumbent on the part of the young who are greatly enamoured of the artificial and external beauties of the sprun languages and their works, to give deep thought to the innate worth of Tamil the ancient tounge and do the needful to make its treasures many tongues.SAIVA SIDDHANTA AS A PHILOSOPHY OF PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE
Contents Of The Preface
The great erudite Tamil scholar  Dr. G.U.  Pope held Saiva Siddhanta to be the pre-Aryan system of Tamilian thought.	
Neither the materialistic monism of the scientists nor the  idealistic  monism  of  Sankaracharya  can satisfy the cravings of the human beings, 	
It  is  the  Saiva  siddhanta,  or  as  it  is  styled  as  the 	pluralistic  monism by William James, that can satisfy such cravings, 					
God or pathi is truth, intelligence & bliss, it is above births and deaths, 					
God is called Sivam simply because this term expresses the essential quality of God Love - God is both transcendent and immediate-The significance of image worship, 						
Dr. E. Caird on images-Countless finite souls Leibnitz, Ward and Schiller on individual souls - Existence & nature of Anavam or evil, 			
Schiller and Drummond on the principle of evil-Karma,         
James Ward on metampsychosis-The pure and the impure Mayai, 					        
Historical Sketch of Saiva Siddhanta
	S.Siddhanta the product of Tamilian intellect 			Z.Ragozin on the Aryas & the Non-Aryas or 				Dravidians,    
	The Babylonians, the Sumerians, the Accadians were 		all Tamils, 					          
	Hero worship of the Aryas, 				           
	The meaning of the symbol Sivalinga,                                 
	Dravidians the pre-Aryan population of India, 	          
	The high antiquity of Tamilian culture among 			Dravidians,         
	Sir John Marshall on the Indus Civilisation; Dr. H.R. 		Hall on the Sumerians,                                 
	The one almighty, God was called Siva or Rudra by 		the Tamils, 					         
	God manifests himself in fire & light, 		         
	Rudra in the Rig Veda; Tamil Saiva Saints on Siva,             
	Rudra & Siva Tamil words, 				         
	Rudra not an Aryan god,                                                       
	Aryan view of Sivalinga,                                                    
	Ascetic literature non Aryan; Prof. Winternitz, 	        
	Ascetic poetry and yoga belong to the Tamils, 	         
	Sir John Marshall & Dr.Mackay on Saivism as the most 		ancient living faith in the world.		          
Contents of the Treatise
	Philosophy & life, 					          
	Metaphysical theories having no relation to life are 		valueless, 					         
	The abstract theory un-tenable: Dr. J. Ward, 		           
	Concrete life and St. Meikandan & J.S. Mill, 	          
	Life and body, 						          
	Life cannot come of lifeless matter; Prof. Tyndall & 		Sir Oliver Lodge 				           
	Purpose of Creation & St. Meikandan, 		           
	The meaning of the term Maya in S. Siddhanta; the 		illusion theory unknown to the early Upanishads,    
	The value & use of organic body,                                                  
	St. Meikandan & Prof. Drummond on environment          
	Dr.J.Ward on the nescience of neo-Vedantins, F. Myers  on the existence in Souls of ignorance & intelligence,
	Indiviual souls many; Darwin, 	
	Idealistic monism & Prof. Eucken, 			        
	Materialistic monism, 					          
	Invisible state matter, 					         
	Brain & Consciousness & God 			         
	Criticism on the physiological theory; M. Bergson,            
	Prof. James on the distinct nature of Brain & 			Consciousness 					                  
	Dr. F.C.S. Schiller on the vicarious function of an 			injured brain which is due to its indwelling  			consciousness 
	Memory is the power of mind, 			     
	God the efficient cause 				      
	The present life & dream 				       
	The formation of  mental images, 			      
	Prof. Sully on day and night dreams 			     Harm & confusion of the illusion theory, 		     
	Andrew Lang’s ‘Dreams & Ghosts,’ 			     Pluralistic Monism of S. Meikandan & Prof. James,         
7-8-1923
Corpus Christi College,
Oxford.
I know nothing of Saiva Siddhanta beyond what I have learnt  from Swami Vedachalam, but if it means, as he says, opposition to Vedantist Pantheism with its doctrines that all is one and all is illusion, it has my heartiest sympathy. For I have long thought monism as harmful socially as it is scientifically groundless, and the widespread acceptance it has won in India seems to be a clue to much of political history of the country. If the peoples of India can be persuaded that the truth of speculations also must tested by their bearing upon life, the progress of India be much accelerated.
	I have also been much struck by the account Swami Vedachalam gives of the relation between body and mind as conceived by S. Meikandan. For if it is correct it shows that he also anticipated William James in formulating the ‘transmission’ theory which supplies so elegant irrefragable an answer to materialism.
(Signed) F.C.S.Schiller.


PREFACE

“The Caiva Siddhanta system is the most elaborate, influential, and undoubtedly the most intrinsically valuable all the religions of India. It is peculiarly the South-India, and Tamil religion. **** Caivism is the old pre-historic religion of South India, essentially existing from Pre-Aryan times, and holds sway over the hearts of the Tamil people”:- thus states Dr.G.U.Pope in his English translation of the sacred Tamil lyrics, the Thiruvachakam of the great Saiva Saint Manickavachakar, p.lxxiv.
The above extract expresses the just estimate arrived at by that great Christian missionary and profound Tamil scholar Dr. G.U. Pope, as regards the intrinsic merit and antiquity of the Saiva Siddhanta the religion and philosophy of the Tamil people. Most of his active period of life Dr. Pope spent in the heart of the Tamil country moving intimately with all classes of the Tamil people and learning at first-hand not only their beliefs, customs and manners but also their ancient classics such as Thirukural, Purananooru, Silappadhikaram, Manimekalai, Palamoli, Naladiyar, Periapuranam, Sivajnanabodham and others. His erudition in Tamil was equal to, and in some respects even exceeded, the erudition of great native scholars. So his impartial estimate of the Saiva Siddhanta, coming as it does from a great western scholar who combined in himself the culture of both west and east, may, by being prefixed to this preface of the following work of mine on Saivism, serve well to impress its value and importance on the minds of those learned Indians Europeans to whom it is a sealed book. For the modern philosophic and religious thought in the east and the west is so strongly coloured either by the atheistic system of the Buddhists or by the pantheistic system of Sankara and his cult, except where the most wholesome teaching of Professor William James have pervaded, that almost all lines of inquiry either into the realm of matter or into the realm of spirit, might be said, without exaggeration  to end themselves either in a materialistic monism or in an idealistic monism; that is to say, that affirm simply that the end (the end of what is not clear from what they affirm) there exists nothing but what appears to be a form of energy whether you call it matter or spirit.
In whatever way this kind of monism so stubbornly held in the teeth of all human experience, may seem to satisfy certain “tough-minded” people, certain it is it cannot satisfy the cravings of the “tender-minded people, as the two types, namely the monists and pluralists, have been so pertinently called by Prof. James. We who live in the world of both mind and matter we who acquire all our knowledge and experience by our contact with so many intelligent beings higher and lower with so many products of matter which minister to our wants, cannot rest content with such a nameless and form less and therefore such an incomprehensible monism, but need a system which would meet our wishes and aspirations in entire harmony with our past and present experiences.
While our worldly experience is thus many-sided, it has yet a unity that underlies all its variety. In the words of James, “It is both one and many,” and therefore “let us adopt a sort of pluralistic monism.”1 Now the Saiva Siddhanta furnishes us with such a pluralistic monism as is evident from the following quotation taken from one of the fourteen authoritative works in Tamil which treat of the Saiva Siddhanta system. According to this system,
“There are six entities which have no beginning. The first of these is the Lord (Pathi) Who is One. The second is the aggregate of all Souls (Pacu) with their undeveloped potentialities of thought and act, interpenetrated by a divine but hidden influence. The third is the impurity of Anavam wearing the form of darkness. The fourth is twofold dees (Vinai). The fifth and sixth are the two kinds of Mayai, the pure and impure the substratum and material of the phenomenal universe.”2
In the following work which contains the essence of my lectures delivered at different places and on different occasions, I have given to the best of my ability a clear and national exposition of the views of the Saiva Siddhanta relating to the six entities enumerated above. For the guidance of my readers let me give here a succinct explanation of the six aspects.
Saivism is strictly a monotheistic religion holding that only as God which is truth, intelligence, and bliss which is above births and deaths, which is all love and grace towards all indiviudal souls, which is distinct from both matter and finite selves and yet dwells within them and without and is ever active in bringing the souls out a darkness and setting them in its light and beatitude. It calls God by the name of Sivam, simply because the term specifies the essential quality of God which is pure love, pure bliss. In later times many more gods such as Subramanya, Ganesa, Veerabhadra and others were adopted into its fold; but none of the founders of the Saiva religion held any one as God except Siva. In the ten collections of the sacred hymns or Thirumurai sung by St. Thirujnanasambandhar, St. Appar, St. Sundarar, St. Manickavachakar and others, there is not a single hymn sung in praise of any god other than Siva. And in each and every temple of Siva, his only true emblem the Sivalinga is set up in the central shrine as the pre-eminent object of first worship, while the images of all other gods are quartered around the central sanctuary and offered only subordinate places and ordinary worship. Thus yet find that not only do the ancient sacred literature of Saivism but the very construction of its temples and the pre-eminent form of worship daily offered in them to Siva also bear indisputable testimony to the monotheistic character of the Saiva religion.
According to Saivism God is as remote and transcendent as He is near and personal. Though His nature is one, it appears to be twofold to the finite conception of the individual minds, just as the sun which appears to our naked eyes like a small bright disc, is, in reality, immense in its size and thus seems to present two aspects to our perception and conception. As has been so well pointed out by Prof. James in the lecture on Philosophy in his epoch making work: “The Varieties of Religious Experience.” “that the transcendentalist reasonings fail to make  religion universa1,” this incomprehensible and inconceivable aspect of God can never appeal to a devout mind that is thirsting after to obtain at least a glimpse of his presence and personality. In so far as God is will, intelligence and freedom, he cannot be an unfeeling, unintelligent and impersonal existence. Nowhere is the personal aspect of God which is in vital relation with all living beings is so strongly emphasized as in Saivism. Since He is in and near every vital being and is helping them all to develop their faculties of thought and feeling, life is held in it so sacred that taking it away from a man or a beast is looked upon by it as an unpardonable and sacrilegious crime. Hence the very word Saivism has come to be applied to a vegetarian mode of living also.
Now, it is this hankering of the human mind after the having personal relation of God to itself that has prompted it to feel deeply the need for setting up a physical image before its outer eyes as a means of setting up a corresponding mental image before its inner eyes. For all our knowledge of anything consists in bringing into our mind a mental image corresponding to that particular physical thing and storing it up permanently in our memory for after use. Blot that image out of your mind or forget altogether and you thereby lose the knowledge of it also once for all. In fact, a man of vast knowledge is distinguished from another man of small knowledge only for his power of forming in his mind as well as of fixing on his memory myriads of distinct mental images corresponding exactly to the forms of physical objects which he was observing attentively and noting carefully. This psychological law pertaining to the formation and development of the human mind must disclose to us the necessity of keeping before our eyes an image made of clay or wood, store or any mineral matter for the sake of raising up in our mind a clear image of God corresponding to it. For, is not utterly impossible for us to conceive of an object thus we have not previously seen or heard, touched or smelled or tasted? It is the deep-felt longing of the human mind for a concrete thing to  meditate upon that has brought into existence a multitude of temples not only in the Tamil country where its number is comparatively very large be also in other ancient civilized countries such as Egypt, Babylonia, Chaldea in the west and Mexico and Peru the east. We cannot close this part of our subject relating to idol-worship better than by citing the words of Dr. Edwin Caird taken from his masterly treatment of “The Evolution of Religion.” which run as follows:-
“To represent God as a mere object is, as we have seen, to express the divine in an inadequate form, in a form that, at least, cannot be made fully adequate to the idea; for the principle of unity in all objects and subjects cannot be properly represented as one object among others. But, at the same time, it is also true that in some sense the whole is involved in every part of the universe, and therefore any part of it may for a time be taken as a type of the whole. * * * When the spiritual cannot yet be separated from the natural, it is of the highest importance that the natural object which represents the spiritual should be, as it were, transfigured by the imagination, so that it may, so far as possible, symbolically take the place of the spiritual.”3
Viewed in this light how significant is the worship offered to Sivalinga in the great temples that burst so magnificently on the sight of the travellers all over the south of India, must become apparent to all who have a right thinking mind. I cannot pursue the treatment of this topic further in a short preface like this. For a detailed explanation of the origin and meaning of the Sivalinga-worship the reader is referred to my Tamil lectures on “The Image-worship” and “Sivalinga” and to my English lecture on “The Conception of God as Rudra.”
Now, as to the second entity of the Saiva Siddhanta: “The aggregate of all Souls.” From the tiniest and the most simple unicellular organism called protoplasm to the highest and the most complex organism called man there exist from all eternity countless individual souls each having a distinct character of its own and each undergoing different degrees of development in accordance with it nature, capacity and effort. All these souls are not the principles created out of nothing according to some religions, nor are they the splintered pieces of God Himself according to some other religions; nor do they constitute so many evolved centres of unintelligent matter according to some material sciences, nor could they be pure fiction imagined in the infinite absolute according to some range idealism. On the contrary, they are as eternal as God and not even a single soul could, by any known or unknown power or process, be reduced into nothing nor could any one of them be transmuted into any other of the group. According to the Saiva Siddhanta, and “the pluralistic, as according to the Leibnizian view,” says Dr. James Ward in his remarkable Gifford Lectures, “all the individuals there are have existed from the first and will continue to exist indefinitely.”4 And the same authority like the Siddhanta, holds tenaciously to the view that “individuals who have no ‘doubles,’ whose like all in all we never shall meet again.”5 In upholding the eternal reality of individual souls Dr.F.C.S. Schiller has said ever more emphatically as follows:
“The ultimate self-existence of spirits, the doctrine that existences are many, spirits uncreated, uncaused, they are and ever have been and can never cease to be, is the only metaphysical ground for asserting the immortality of the individual. And this metaphysical ground we have secured by the preference given to Pluralism over Monism.”6
Now, as regards the third principle the dark and impure Anavam, What the Saiva Siddhanta states is, in the words of Dr. F.C.S. Schiller, this: “Evil was potentially existent in the world” and “the world was created in order to remedy this pre-existent and pre-cosmic defect.”7 If all had been eternally perfect like God, creation is unnecessary, and it may even be said to be mischievous, like the mischievous play of some wild boys, who take pleasure in throwing stones on innocent animals and even on grown-up persons. But such does not seem to be the case, since all souls have defects and imperfections ingrained in them in various trades and degrees which, with the help of created things and substances, they strive and struggle to get rid of. This supreme purpose of creation cannot in the least be understood, unless you recognize in the individual minds be potential existence of the evil principle called Anavam in the Saiva Siddhanta. Of this evil principle Prof. Henry Drummond the great scientist and theologian, writes:
“There is a natural principle in man lowering him, acadening him, pulling him down by inches to the mere animal plane, blinding reason, searing conscience, paralysing will.”8 
So far as my knowledge of various religions and various systems of philosophy is concerned, I venture to say that I have not come across any religion or any system of philosophy in which this root-cause of creation, this pre-existent principle of evil has been recognized and explicitly mentioned as in the system of Saiva Siddhanta. Of course, there is a hint of it in the first chapter of the Book of Genesis of the Old Testament as has been penetratingly pointed out by Dr. F.C.S. Schiller, but it has unfortunately escaped the notice of almost all commentators on the book.
Now, let us turn to the fourth concept; the two kinds of deeds called the good and the bad. Even living thing from amoeba upwards is endowed with intelligence and this enables all to respond to impressions proceeding from surrounding objects and perform certain functions either in opposition to, or accordance with, these impressions. In answering thus to outward calls the lower organisms learn to repeat what seemed at first favourable to the maintenance of their own life aud afterwards to the maintenance of the life of their own offspring. The first act of every living being meets with great resistence offered both by animate and inanimate objects, that is, by its own body and the things external to it. All the products of matter not yield     themselves readily to the will of an intelligent being, unless it exercises its own intelligence constantly and devises newer and newer means to bend them to its will. In this way it learns that not one act but many acts, of which every succeeding one is more intelligently performed than the preceding one, are necessary for achieving the conquest over matter.
It is such repeated actions of living beings that have come to be collectively called Karma or Vinai in Saivism; or in the language of psychology habit. As we observe he infinite grades of lives, and the infinite degrees of intelligence, we are led to believe that no man, who gains an insight into the nature and evolution of individual souls, can at a bound conclude that the life of a soul can become perfect in a single birth, when even the duration of which varies from a moment to an age.
Further, the actions of living beings acquire moral value only after they ascend to human life in the scale of their existence. Therefore it seems most unreasonable to assert that the lower lives will become extinct after they have passed through a single existence and before they have reached higher levels at which their actions acquire moral value. Even after reaching the human level, individual souls do differ so widely among themselves in the degrees of intelligence that, here too, perfection is not attainable by all, in the single birth. And so, before attaining to the highest level of perfection, it is but reasonable to hold with the Saiva Siddhanta that all souls must accumulate habits after habits only by passing through myriads of bodily existences in this world and in others that are distant from our own, as has been so wisely put by Dr. James Ward: “At any rate ‘metampsychosis’ in some form seems an unavoidable corollary of thorough-going pampsychism, so long as we look broadly at the facts of life as a whole.”9
And we now come finally to the fifth and the sixth elements,  the pure and the impure Mayai. Modern science has discovered that the world of our experience is ultimately resolvable into protons and electrons. The impure Mayai is the direct material cause of the universe, while the pure; the protons and electrons, constitutes only indirectly so. The reason for this two fold classification of Mayai is this: The souls buried, as it were, in coarse and foul impurities require equally coarse things to be cleansed of their impurities; whereas the highly developed souls rising above dirt and fifth require only the help of finer substances to raise them still higher. For we see plainly before our eyes the mental faculties of different individual souls developing different degrees and in different directions without the limit being set to them. In proportion to the mental development of souls, matter which serves as its vehicle also becomes rarefied in different degrees. In the words of Dr. Schiller, “The spiritualization of Matter is displayed also in its relations to spiritual beings. As in the course of evolution these become more harmonized with the Divine will, Matter, the expression of that will becomes more and more harmonized with the desires of spiritual beings.”10 That the doctrine of Maya as held by Saivism is coming to be understood as being in entire harmony with the discoveries of modern science, must be clear to all who make a comparative study of the two.
To all those who seek after an exact knowledge of these six eternal verities, it must be very gratifying to note that the recent developments of western philosophy and physical science go every inch to prove the truth and value of all the fundamental doctrines that are peculiar only to Saiva Siddhanta but not to any other religion or philosophy ancient or modern.		


HISTORICAL SKETCH OF SAIVA SIDDHANTA
But the religion and philosophy of Saiva Siddhanta, as has been pointed out by Dr. G.U. Pope, are “peculiarly South-Indian” and the Tamils who are the pre-Aryan inhabitants of India, are alone the sole and strict adherents of this system from times immemorial. This historic fact being a very momentous one, we have to devote our serious attention to it and elucidate it in as brief a manner as possible. For it has became a pleasing custom even among Tamil Scholars of non-Aryan descent to derive every thing excellent in pure Tamil literature from Sanscrit or to ascribe its origin to the thought of some legendary Aryan sage or other. From my twentieth year, that is, nearly forty two years ago, when I was for some time an editor of the Tamil edition of that very useful magazine The Light of Truth, the question with regard to the true origin of the Saiva Siddhanta began to engage my earnest attention and led me to make to comparative study of both Sanscrit and Tamil literature. 
The results of this study disclosed to me facts undreamt of even by profound Sanscrit scholars European and Indian, notwithstanding a partial knowledge which an exceptional few of them did possess of those facts Why such vital historical facts relating to the mental moral and religious culture of such a highly civilized and ancient race as the Tamils, escaped the notice of so many Sanscrit scholars, has been due to an utter want on their part of knowledge of Tamil literature produced before the first century A.D. i.e, at a time when the influence of the Aryan ceremonial cult had not penetrated into the South. The facts obtained from my close critical study of the two literatures are set forth fully in my large Tamil work on ‘The Life and Times of St. Manickavachakar’ and also to a limited but intelligible extent in my recent English work: ‘The Ancient and Modern Tamil Poets’. For a correct understanding of the origin of Saiva Siddhanta it seems to me very necessary to set down some of these facts here in this short preface.
From a careful perusal of the hymns of the Rig Veda the most ancient work extant in the Aryan tongue any one of an acute intelligence can detect in them the intermixture of two entirely different modes of life and thought belonging to two different races that must have come into contact with each other long before the compilation of its hymns took place in northern India. From the hymns themselves we learn the existence of two peoples of which one was called the Aryas and the other the Dasyus. About these two people Ragozin says; “It were impossible to exaggerate the loathing and contempt with which the Aryas regarded those whom they were robbing of land and liberty. These feelings primarily aroused by that most ineradicalbe and unreasoning of human instincts, race antagonism, find vent in numberless passages of great value, because they enable us to piece together a tolerably correct picture of what those aborigines must have been, and in what manner they chiefly contrasted with their conquerors. The difference in colour and cast of features is the first to strike us, and in that, as already hinted, we trace the beginnings of caste distinction. ‘Destroying the Dasyus, Indra protected the Aryan color,’ gratefully proclaims one poet. ‘Indra’, says another, ‘protected in battle the Aryan worshipper, he subdued the lawless for Manu, he conquered the black skin.”11.
While the Aryan people had Vasishtha as their chief priest, the powerful ruling tribe of the indigenous Tamils who were called the Bharatas had Visvamitra for their chief priest and patriarch. In dwelling on the typical contrast of these two Rishis, Ragozin had clearly brought out the prominent characteristics of the Aryas and the Tamils and the cults they represented. With a deep insight he declares; “To keep strictly within the information supplied by the Rig Veda itself-Vasishtha was the bard of the Tritsu, the leading and purest Aryan tribe, and Visvamitra was the bard of the Bharatas their great enemies and one of the most powerful native tribes. He at one time had been with the Tritsu, and for whatever cause he left them-not improbably persons revenge-he played a conspicuous part in the confederacy which attempted to check the Aryan advance and increasing power. * * * At a later period the followers Vashistha and his descendants represent the narrowly orthodox Brahminic school, with its petty punctiliousness in the matter of forms, rites, observances, in intolerance of everything un-Aryan, its rigid separatism * * * The followers of Visvamitra and his descendants, on the other hand, represented the school of liberalism and progress, of conciliation and amalgamation. * * * But it must also have been owing to this their policy of concilitation that many of their beliefs and practices of the once loathed aborigines gradually crept into the Aryan worship, and gained a footing there paving the way for the mixed forms of Hindusim in the future.”12
Now who these Dasyus were, and who the Bharatas that had been so contemptuously spoken of and called the black-skinned by the Rig Vedic Aryas has been also pointed out by Ragozin in the following passage:
“Of the Dravidian race, tribes are scattered through the central Vindhya region, while its bulk has, from pre-Aryan times to this day, covered the entire three sided table-land sweepingly named Dekhan. In moral characteristics they, from the first, strongly contrasted with the Kolarians. They too live in village communities, but under a rule which leans more to the monarchic type, and, in all their ways, they show more public spirit. Equally good traders and farmers, they are patient, laborious, steadfast, and loyal. * * * In several of those passages in which the priestly poets exhaust their ingenuity inventing abusive epithets for their Dasyu foes, they call them with scathing contempt, Sisna-devas, literally: ‘Whose God is Sisna or Sesh.”13  And in a still more remarkable passage which follows, he dwells on the racial affinity existing between the Dravidians and the Shumiro-Accads: “The connection between the Dravidians of Northern and Western India and the first Babylonian Empire, - the Babylonia of the Shumira-Accads, before the advent of the Semites-becomes less surprising when we realize that there was between them something more than chance relations, that they were in fact of the same race or stock-that which is broadly designated as Turanian. Philology points that way, for the Dravidian languages are agglutinative; craniology will not disprove the affinity, for a glance at the Gondh types on illustration No.23, and the turbaned head of Tell-Loh (Accadian Sirgulla about 4000 B.C.) will show the likeness in features and shape. But even more convincing is the common sacred symbol-the Serpent, the emblem of the worship of Earth, with its mystery, its wealth and its forces. The Accadian supreme god Ea was worshipped at his holiest shrine at Eridhu under the form of a serpent, and as Eridhu was the centre from which the first Chaldean civilization started and spread, so the serpent-symbol was accepted as that of the race and its religion”.14
From these extracts taken from the work of an able and impartial historian of ancient India whose historical studies, though they are based not upon Tamil literature but upon the literatures and archaeology of the Aryans, the Eranians, the Shumiro-Accads, the Babylonians and others of the ancient west, yet we get glimps of the following facts pertaining to the history of the ancient Tamils in relation with the Aryas:
1. The Tamils, the only civilized section of the people generally called the Dravidians, possessing as they do, a vast and rich literature produced from 3500 B.C. up to our own times, must have been the early inhabitants of the whole of India, before the Aryas entered its north western part. They had in ancient time commercial relations with the people of the west, and it was the trading classes of the Tamils who settled permanently in the thriving centres of the west that, as time went on, came to be called the Babylonians, the Sumarians, the Accadians and so on.
2. The Aryas who entered India found the Tamils be rich,      intelligent and powerful and live in strongly fortified towns and castles that they dreaded to meet openly on battlefield, but sought the aid of their  dead heroes such as Indra, Varuna and others by means prayer and sacrifice, for the protection of their own race and the destruction of the Tamils whom they contemptuously called the black skinned Dasyus. The Aryas, for their safety, put so great a faith in the efficacy of bloody sacrifices and drinking bouts that they became extremely punctilious in the observance and performance of rites and ceremonies pertaining to them. The  faith in the rituals took so strong a hold of their mind that it led them to look upon the riteless Tamils with bitter hatred and derision. The hymns to Indra in which they give vent to their malignant feelings against the Tamils are not a few in number, and they all plainly show how narrow their views were and how intolerant they became of everything un-Aryan.
3. The Tamils, on the other hand, held not only liberal views about the Aryas, their customs and manners, but even earnestly wished to conciliate them to their own high moral and religious principles, and, if possible, to unite them with their own people. The culture of the Tamils was wide and their sympathies went beyond the circle of their own people.
4. The Aryas had no religion, if by religion we mean the belief in one Almighty God of the universe and the loving communion which man longs to have with God as a person and parent. Having been in dire want of even the bare necessities of life, the Aryas struggled hard to obtain a suitable dwelling place as well us food and clothing. Being also poor in the number their fighting men and money, they sought to gain the end by appealing to their head heroes such as Indra, Varuna, Mitra and others whom they exalted each in turn to the highest place of God. Consequently, they could think of no God who is greater than them, and who, besides being single, invisible and intangible, personal, kind and merciful also.
5. The Tamils, on the other hand, having settled in life long before the advent of the Aryas and having also reached the highest level of civilisation which was contemporaneous with that of the Egyptians and the Sumerians, had ample scope to reflect upon the wonderful nature of this immense material universe and the inner spiritual world and set down their thoughts in works of imperishable value. They did not stop with the investigation of mere material phenomena but dived deep and discovered that bottom of existence of a spiritual principle which is single and all powerful and which has been the efficient cause of all creation. They conceived God not as wholly invisible but somewhat visible in light, particularly in the light of the Sun, the Moon, and the fire, so that in later ages they came to use a material symbol resembling the  form of the burning flame and paid their worship to it with mere leaves and flowers, with no other rites or ceremony. Unable to grasp the meaning of this symbol of God which was called the “Sivalinga” in later times, the Aryas, like most of the present day orientalists, called it “Sisna devah” or phallus. The Tamils not only attached little value to rituals but even looked upon with loathing the bloody sacrifices of the Aryas and the numberless rites and ceremonies which they went on multiplying with the selfish intent of squeezing out money from the people by striking awe into their mind.
As regards the first point; the pre-Aryan occupation of the whole of India by the Dravidians, pre-eminently above all others by the Tamils, that was pointed out by Dr. Caldwell as early as the year 1856 as follows: “Every form and root which the Brahui possesses in common with the Dravidian tongues may be regarded as many centuries older still. The Brahuic anologies enable us to ascend to a period anterior to the arrival in India of the Aryans which cannot safely be placed later than 1600 B.C.”15 And that of all the Dravidian languages Tamil alone was the earliest cultivated has also been clearly shown by the same veteran scholar in his admirable work on the Dravidian langages. “The Shen Tamil,” he says, “which is the language of the poetry and of the ancient inscriptions, and which not only contains all the refinements which the Tamil has received, but also exhibits to a great extent the primitive condition of the language, differs more from the colloquial Tamil than the poetical dialect of any other Dravidian idiom differs from its ordinary dialect. * * * As the words and forms of the Shen Tamil cannot have been invented by the poets, but must at some period have been in actual use, the degree in which the colloquial Tamil has diverged from the poetical dialect, notwithstanding the slowness with which language, like everything else changes in the east, is a proof of the high antiquity of the literary cultivation of the Tamil.”16 Many more facts are adduced by Dr. Caldwell to prove the high antiquity of the cultivation which the Tamil alone of all the Dravidian tongues received, but the above will suffice for our purpose in a preface like this.
Further, if one can take the trouble of comparing the time of Tamil literature with the times of some other Dravidian literatures, one would find the high antiquity of Tamil culture easily established to the exclusion of other Dravidian cultures. For it should be borne in mind that Kanarese literature sprang into being only after the 9th century A.D; Telugu literature came into being only after the 11th century A.D.; Malayalam literature only after the 14th century A.D. All other Dravidian dialects still remain uncultivated, although they are spoken in the north and south of India even to this day. That the literatures of three  the Dravidian tongues possess no original works of their own except the translations made of a few mythical Puranas and Epics in Sanscrit, is a point that should be noted by all who intend to make a correct estimate of the value Tamil literature in comparison with others. For ancient Tamil literature possesses not only many works completely original such as Tholkappiam, Ahananoory, Purananoory, Kalithokai, Kurunthokai, Iyngurunooru, Narrinai, Pathitruppathu, Paripadal, Thirukkural, and others, all produced from 3500 B.C. to the beginning of the Christian era, quite independently of any Sanscrit influence but it also possesses many epics and sacred hymns of such merit that in their matter and manner they are unequalled and unexcelled even by Sanscrit classics. 
As all the pure Tamil works had thus been produced continuously without any break from 3500 B.C. to the 12th century A.D., this vital fact alone would be sufficient to prove the prosperous, peaceful and intellectual condition of life enjoyed by the Tamils from the very remote past. Hence it must have been the Tamilians themselves that occupied the whole of India as far as the north western frontier, when the Aryan nomads came to the Punjab and found them such, powerful and highly civilized. As we find not race either in ancient Tamil literature or in Sanscrit of any other Dravidian people speaking such modern Dravidian tongues as Kanarese, Telugu, Malayalam, etc., We cannot be far from being correct in concluding that at that distant period of time the only civilized people who inhabited the whole of India could be none other than the Tamils, for they were then one undivided people,  the single race speaking only one single tongue the pure Tamil.
Although there must have been individual variations in their speech, and customs and manners owing to distance of places, diversity of climate and callings just as there are, at present, differences in them between the people of Madras and the people of Ceylon, with graded differences prevailing among the other Tamil people living between the two land limits, yet the Tamil language has retained its identity for more than five thousand years, assuredly not on account of anything but the wide cultivation which it generally received  at the hands of all the several classes of the Tamil people who lived all throughout India.
To add to this important cause, many of the ancient Tamils, like their modern descendants, seem to have been enterprising traders both on land and sea, so that the constant intercourse with all classes of the Tamil people living wide apart, had constituted another powerful factor which contributed towards keeping up Tamil wholly intact. From time to time separate companies were formed of these traders who went to east and west and settled permanently in several important centres so as to render easier the commercial intercourse of the mother country with the foreign nations. That it was the Tamil people who belonged to these trade settlements that, as time went on, came to be called the Sumerians and some other civilized nations of the west, is evident from the recent utterances of Sir John Marshall;
“It may be recalled” he says in his great work on Mohenjo-daro and the Indus Civilization, “that before anything whatever had been discovered of the Indus civilization, Dr. H.R. Hall proposed to locate the homeland of the Sumerians somewhere to the east of Mesopotamia and suggested that they might belong to the same ethnic type as the Dravidians of India, who though now restricted to the south of India are believed on linguistic and ethnological grounds to have once populated virtually the whole of the peninsula, including the Punjab, Sind, and Baluchistan where as is well-known the Dravidian speech in still preserved in the language of the Brahuis. Following on the discoveries at Mohenjo-daro and Harappa which revealed various points of resemblance between the material cultures of these places and of Sumer, it was natural that a fresh impetus should be given to this theory and the resemblances referred to should be interpreted as additional proof of its correctness.”
Now, do not these historical facts brought to light by the indefatigable labours of European scholars prove beyond doubt that the civilized people who, long before the advent of the Aryas, occupied the whole of India and given other countries lying beyond its north western limit, were none other than the Tamils? If the Tamils been the pre-Aryan inhabitants of India, it follows as a matter of course that their religion too must have been pre-Aryan in every respect.
Then, what sort of faith did the ancient Tamils profess? To cut the thing short, it may be promptly and directly replied that it was nothing but Saivism pure and simple. The term Saiva was coined in post-Vedic times to represent the religious cult which held Siva as the one almighty God of the universe. That Siva had been a pure Dravidian deity is the view expressed long ago by Mr. P. Wurm.17  But we cannot see why to M. Barth it should seem inadmissible, while he himself detects behind it “an old aboriginal worship.” And even Mr. A.B. Keith who would like to attribute everything great and excellent in the civilisation of the Dravidians to the influence of the Brahmins, is, in this respect, constrained by rigid facts to admit and describe how the Brahmins came to adopt this god of the people into their religious cult; He says:
“The position of Rudra as a popular deity is sufficiently shown by the litanies to him in the Samhitas of Yajurveda, and by the whole outlook of such texts as the Aitareya, Kaushitaki,  and Catapatha Brahmanas. When Prajapati committed incest with his daughter, the Aitarey tells us that the gods were wroth, and from their most dread forms produced the god Bhutapati ‘lord of creatures’ who represents one aspect of Rudra’s activities. He pierced Prajapati and thereby acquired his dominion over all cattle. In another passage the wording of a RigVedic verse altered to avoid the mention of Rudra’s dread name: in yet another he appears at the sacrifice in black raim and appropriates to himself the sacrificial victim, We need not suppose that in this presentation the Brahmanas were creating a new figure; rather they were adapting to their system, as far as they could, a great god of the people. But the Rudra of this period can hardly be regarded as a mere development of the Rudra of the Rig Veda; it seems most probable that with the Vedic Rudra is amalgamated an aboriginal god of vegetation, closely connected with pastoral life. Vishnu cannot be said to have won any such assured place as Rudra, who is already hailed as the ‘great god’ par excellence, and already bears the name of Civa, ‘propitious’ which is to be his final appellation.”18 (Italics ours)
Now, this quotation taken from the article of a pro-brahmin Professor of a Scotch University does not beat about the bush in saying what is true of the origin of Rudra worship, but openly declares the fact of its being the hereditary cult of the non-Aryan people, although the professor seems to be somewhat reluctant to call these people the Dravidians.
Still it must be noted here that Mr. Keith likes not to identify the Rudra of the Rig Veda with the Rudra of the Tamils who preferred to call him in subsequent ages by the name of Siva. The term Siva itself as the name of Rudra is not an unknown thing to the Rig Veda. In the tenth book of this Veda (92,5), Rudra is called Siva in the following verse:
“yebih Sivah Svavan evayavabhir”
To this important point which establishes the indentity of Rudra with Siva, some more facts taken from the Rig Veda itself might be adduced to prove the sameness of the Deity represented by the two terms.
Since God manifests himself in fire, Agni is called Rudra in the Rigveda; “Tvam Agne Rudra” (ii. 1,6). In like manner, in the Thiruvachakam and Devara hymns, you will meet with hundreds of verses which either identify Siva with fire, light, the sun and the moon or call these His special forms. For instance, St. Manickavachakam sings: “His (Siva’s) blazing form is verily the fire (ஸிறீடியும்ஷ் ஸீயீலீஹ் ஸீணீஸீணீபீ ளீம்ஞிப் ஊந்ஷ்ரீஹ்டி. St. Thirugnanasambandhar, St. Appar and St. Sundarar glorify Siva in the same strain as தீரீலீயீபிவ் நீஹி. னீழ்ஸ்டூ <க்ஷீபீயி நீஹிஹின்யீ. தீளீய்ழிணீ கூம்தீஷ்டூணீ தூன்ஸீயீ தீணீலீழீ ஸீழீடிஏலீம் respectively.   
Modern science has not as yet arrived at any positive conclusion as to what constitutes the essence of light and heat. All that it could affirm about them is that the two manifest themselves as the result of two distinct vibratory motions of etheric waves. As they are imponderable, they are not substances, but are mere energies; so says the Physical science. But what originates these energies? Why should the ether vibrate in two different ways instead of one? Does the ether possess so much intelligence as to produce two distinct vibrations with a set purpose. These are questions on which science maintains complete silence.
But the ancient Saiva religion holds that light itself is God, that light is inseparable from heat though in some substances from which light emanates heat may be latent, that where both light and heat appear together the fire too becomes visible, and that as no known process of reasoning can prove fire to be a material substance the fire constitutes the manifestation of God brought about by Himself out of grace for illuminating both the outer and the inner eyes of the finite souls. Only when you can imagine what the world would be without light and heat to minister to the wants and existence of living beings, can you truly and fully comprehend the divine character, nature and significance of fire and its being the manifestation of God. When you go deeper into the matter, you will find it quite meaningless to speak of fire as being of two kinds, physical and spiritual, for there are no two kinds of fire but one only which is divine through and through.
Perhaps, this way of looking at fire might be deemed strange, nay, even ludicrous by some, the sensitiveness of whose mental vision has become deadened by long and close familiarity with this divine principle. Still a little serious thought bestowed on this great and vital subject will suffice to bring home to one’s mind the fact of God being by His extreme grace easily accessible to all in the from of fire. That is why the fire itself has been called Rudra in the Rig Veda and all the Saiva Saints have been led to identify Him with the fire and the sun. And the colour of the two things being either red or gold, Rudra too has been said in the Rig Veda to be ruddy (i, 114) and to shine like gold (i,43). The Saiva Saints too describe Siva as having a form glowing red (சிவன் எனும் நாமந் தனக்கேயுடைய செம்மேனி எம்மான்) or shining like gold (பொன்னார் nkÅa‹). The root-meaning of the two terms Rudra and Siva, in Tamil is ‘to be ruddy.’ Without mutilating and twisting the shape of these two terms, you can quite easily derive the one from the root uru (உரு) and the other from Siva (át), both meaning in Tamil ‘to be ruddy.’ In spite of this patent fact, why should “the suggestion of Pischel that rud means to be ruddy, or as Grassmann, suggests, to shine” be regarded by Mr. A.B. Keith, “as too hypothetical to found any theory upon,” or why should the connection of the term Siva (rpt) “with the Tamil Sivan ‘redman’” be deemed by him as “neither proved nor plausible,”19  I am at a loss to understand, Such assertions of his cannot be accounted for, except on the supposition that he must have been either totally ignorant of Tamil language and literature or that he is as is evident, strongly prejudiced against the Tamils and their high antique culture. Whatever might be his view about the Tamils and their civilisation, one thing is clear, sure, and certain from what he has said about Rudra that He was not the god of the Brahmins, but he was adapted or rather adopted, by them from “a great god of the people.” Whether the Rig Vedic Aryans were identical with the Brahmins of the later ages or not, concerns us not to inquire in a preface like this, although evidence for their identification could not be obtained from the first nine books of the Rig Veda. All that we can say about the origin of the Rudra or Siva worship is that the cult was as entirely foreign to the ancient Indo-Aryans as it was to the other Aryan tribes who had spread throughout Europe.
If, on the contrary, the Rudra cult really belonged in ancinet times not to the Tamils but to the Aryas only, then it must have prevailed either among all, or at least, among some classes of the Aryan people who migrated to Europe and settled there in its various centres. For the oldest Aryan gods that are glorified in the earliest hymns of the Rig Veda, are found to have been worshipped among the Greeks, the Romans, the Celts, the Slavs, the Lithuanians, the Teutons, etc., who formed the several sections of the early Aryan tribe. For instance, the god Dyaus-Pitar was worshipped by the Greeks and the Romans, as well as by the Rig Vedic Aryans. In the same way, the worship of Parjanya, Bhaga, Mitra, Vala, Atri, Varuna, Indra and other Rig Vedic Aryan gods is found widely dispersed among the Latins, the Slavonians, the Lithuanians, the Iranians, the Kosseens, the Phrygians, the Lydians, the Greeks and other Aryan people of Europe. But neither the worship of Rudra, nor His name, note it, could be met with even in a single Aryan clan in the west.20 Does not this significant fact conclusively prove that the whole Aryan tribe, before any of its kinsmen entered India, knew nothing about Rudra, knew him not even by name? 
Moreover, a clay-tablet discovered in 1907 by Hugo Winckler in Boghazkoi in Asia Minor, contains an inscription which mentions, among others, the names of the Aryan deities such as Indra, Varuna, and the Nasatyas, and the date of which is ascertained to be 1400 B.C.21 From this vital archaeological evidence, is it not obvious that, as far back as 1400 B.C., the Aryan people who settled in Asia Minor had been addressing their prayers just as their kinsmen who migrated to Northern India did, only to Indra, Varuna, and the Nasatyas, but not to Rudra whom they evidently did not know, as, at the time they were roving about outside of India.
To add one more vital proof to those already mentioned, we may point out how the Aryans who came into India took quite a wrong view of the Sivalinga the Emblem of Rudra which they found devoutly worshipped every where, and spoke contemptuously of it as “Sisna devah” (Rig Veda, VII, 21 and X,99) or the phallus, and reviled its worshippers as Dasas. The fact that, from time immemorial, the Tamils alone have been the devoted worshippers of Sivalinga, is testified to by the large number of magnificent Siva temples that stand out in all their architectural glory, not only in north India but also in the south where the descendants of the ancient Tamils dwell in such teeming millions at the present day. This too establishes the important fact that the early Aryan besides being quite strangers to the Rudra cult, had been at first even bitter enemies to the Tamils who were the real originators and staunch believers of this great and very ancient form of divine worship. But, as days went on, the Aryan immigrants settled down peacefully in India, and began to move closely with the Tamils and learn the high significance and value of the one great God Rudra and came gradually to adopt the cult and made it as if it had been their own. Eighty years ago Thomas Buckle took notice of this great religious fact and set it down in his brilliant “History of Civilisation”, his keen historic insight directing him into its true origin. “The worship of Siva” he says, “is more general than any other; and as to its antiquity, there is reason to believe that it was borrowed by the Brahmins from the original Indians.”22 This opinion of an able and great historian is corroborated by the statement recently made by another Englishman who was a Professor of Economics in the University of Madras in the very heart of the Tamil country and who made a careful study of its language, religion and caste and expressed his views about them unreservedly and unequivocally in a valuable treatise on Indian culture-I allude to Dr. Gilbert Slater who says on this important religious matter as follows:
“The caste system, the sancity of the Brahman, the worship of Kali, of Siva and Vishnu, of Parvati, the consort, and Subramaniam and Ganesa, the sons of Siva, and of Krishna, the last incarnation of Vishnu, these things are not mere alien and unimportant accretions to an Indian culture of Aryan and Vedic origin, they are of the innermost essence of Indian culture. If Kali and Siva and Vishnu are not Vedic deities, and vertainly they are not, they can hardly be Aryan, and there seems no other possible alternative than to suppose they are Dravidian.”23 (Italics are mine) And in another place he says: “Vishnu and Siva demand no blood sacrifices.”24
Is not this statement of a momentous historical and religious fact made by an Englishman who remained in the capital town of the Tamil country and eagerly studied on the spot the language, the history, the social conditions and the religious principles of the Tamil people, more notable than the biased assertions made by men like Mr. Keith and Mr.A.C. Das, who, it seems, knew next to nothing of Tamil language and literature and who, most probably, gleaned all their stray information about them from unreliable sources mainly from untrust worthy accounts of Sanscrit books? Having proved so far the fact of the Rudra-cult being the exclusive property of the Tamilians, I now pass on to consider the point whether the Rudra of the Rig Veda was different from, or identical with, the Rudra or Siva of the Tamils’ Saiva religion.
With admirable labour and patience Dr. John Muir has brought together in the fourth volume of his very valuable “Original Sanscrit Texts” all the original passages that relate to Rudra or Siva in the Vedas, the Brahmanas, the Upanishads, the Ithihasas and the Puranas, so that, for a careful study of the Rudra-cult, we cannot find a better book than this to recommend to all earnest inquirers of this great subject. To our present purpose the passages collected by him from the Rig Veda alone are of extreme importance. And we cannot sum up all that is told in them of Rudra better than in the words of M.Barth who gives a succinct summary of it as follows:
“From their father, Rudra, they inherit the knowledge of remedies. This last whose name probably meant the ‘reddish one,’ before it was interpreted to mean ‘The Howler’ is, like his sons, a god of storm. In the Hymns, which certainly do not tell us everything here any more than elsewhere, he has nothing of that gloomy aspect under which we find him become so famous afterwards. Although he is armed with the thunderbolt, and is the author of sudden deaths, he is represented as pre-eminently helpful and beneficent. He is the handsomest of the gods, with his fair locks. Like Soma, the most excellent remedies are at his disposal, and his special office is that of protector of flocks.”25
In the same way as He is represented in the Rig Veda (i.43) as possessing healing remedies, Siva is called ‘Vaidyanatha’ and two famous temples are dedicated to Him, one in Northern India at Baidyanath and the other in Southern India at Vaidisvarankoil. As regards His names Rudra and Siva being pure Tamil words, I have already quoted verses taken from the hymns of the great Saiva Saints who existed from the third century A.D. to the ninth. Just as He is spoken of in the Rig Veda (i.85) as being most bounteous and beneficent, as possessing a brilliant form and the spirally braided hair, as being the protector of two-footed and four-footed creatures, so is He repeatedly invoked in the ancient classical Tamil poems, especially in the Paripadal and in the hymns of the Saiva Saints, as the most unstinted bestower of boons and the God of the most gracious benevolence, and is invariably called ‘Sadaiyan,’ that is, one who has the braided hair, and ‘Pasupathi’ or the Lord of all creatures whether two-footed or four-footed. These epithets which are no less frequently applied to Rudra or Siva both in Sanscrit and Tamil literatures are familiarly known even to the illiterate Tamilians of the present day who repair in millions to the Siva temples which exist in thousands all over India from Benares to Ramesvaram.
And of the many protective deeds that are ascribed to Rudra or Siva in both the literatures, two are distinctly referred to in the Rig Veda: one is the burning of the three cities (vi.16) and the other the drinking of poison (x.136). These are the two great and gracious acts which Siva is said to have performed for the sake of protecting the gods from the persecutions wrought against them by the Asuras. Now, in most of the Tamil poems of ancient and later times where Lord Siva is invoked and praised, one cannot but be struck by the frequency with which the two great deeds of His are mentioned by the poets as indicating His unbounded mercy and grace shown to beings suffering helpless, whoever such beings are, whether Aryan or Tamilian, who seek His help by devotion and penance. 
Do not these traits in the portrayal of Rudra in the Rig Veda and of Siva in the ancient and later poems in Tamil clearly        indicate the identity of the Rudra of the former Aryan work with the Siva of both the ancient and later works in Tamil? To these facts one more might be added as showing in a still clearer light the oneness of the apparently two gods.
In the quiescent and meditative mood in which He sat to instruct the four sages the method of merging the individual self-consciousness in the universal consciousness of God, Rudra is represented in the Rig Veda (x.136) as the Muni or the silent being who wears on his head long and beautiful braided locks, just like the siva yogis, seen all over India from the Himalayas to Cape Comorin, do even at the present day. In this attitude Siva is known by the name of Dakshinamoorthi, the great yogi, and you will find the image of Dakshinamoorthi set up in every Siva temple all over India. the god of yoga is not any of the Aryan deities such as Indra, Mitra and Varuna, but is Isvara as has been emphasized by Patanjali in his ‘Yoga Sutras.’ M. Barth rightly observes: “He (Siva) is also par excellence the god of asceticism and austerities. He is the chief of the yogins.”26 The term ‘Isvara’ applied by Patanjali to Rudra, has already appeared in a slightly altered form in the Rig Veda (ii.33) as the name of Lord Rudra. There the word occurs as ‘Isana,’ and in the later Vedas as ‘Isa’ and ‘Isvara’ For a detailed treatment of this point and the Tamilian origin of yoga, the reader is referred to my article ‘Who the Originators of yoga?”
With the mixture of the Aryan priests and the Tamilian yogis, the Brahmanic literature too came to be mixed with the Ascetic poetry of the Tamils. Prof. M. Winternitz in the course of his critical studies of Sanscrit literature came to be struck so much by this marked difference and admixture of the two streams of thought that he greatly interested himself in making their distinctive character clear in one of his learned and instructive lectures collectively called “Some problems of Indian Literature.” The following extracts from the lecture on “Ascetic Literature in Ancient India” are given as proving my conclusion independently arrived at by a careful study of both Sanscrit and Tamil literature. Prof. Winternitz observes:
“There was in ancient India an ascetic literature different in its character and in its teaching entirely from the Brahmanic literature.”
“And it will be found that the ideas and ideals of this ascetic poetry are originally connected with Samkhya and Yoga as well as with Buddhism and Jainism while whenever they appear mixed up with orthodox Brahmanism in Brahmanical literature they appear as something foreign.”
“The ethics of the legendary poetry and still more of the Brahmanical gnomic poetry is entirely a priestly code of morals. It requires knowledge of the Veda, sacrifice, and honouring of the Brahmans, who are even placed above the gods. It strictly adheres to the system of castes. By ‘charity’ these Brahmanical legends and maxims invariably mean liberality towards the Brahmanas, ample gifts to the priests. Self-sacrifice means absolute devotion towards the priests. That king is praised and glorified who presents thousands of cows to the Brahmanas, that king is actully raised into heaven, who is entirely obedient to the priest and humbles himself completely before the Brahmana.”
“Quite different is the ethical ideal of the ascetic poetry. Its legends are not based on the mythology of the Veda, but rather on folk-lore of popular tales and ballads. The heroes of this legendary poetry are not the half-divine Rishis, but the world-renouncing yogins and ascetics.”
“This ascetic morality culminates in Ahimsa, abstaining from hurting any being, and in Maitri, love of all that lives. It demands complete renunciation of this world, and it disregards caste. Not priests are the poets of these legends and maxims and the teachers of this morality, but sages of all castes and ranks.”
“This ascetic morality however is only part of the whole ascetic view of life which is based on the belief in transmigration and Karman.”
Here, for fear of tiring the patience of the reader I stop giving further extracts from the very interesting lecture of Prof. Winternitz. While admiring the penetration of mind which led Mr. Winternitz to detect the presence of an ascetic poetry in the ancient Sanscrit literature and discriminate it from the Brahminic poetry which was lying side by side with it, we regret he has not shown who the originators of the ascetic poetry were, if, as he stressed the point, the Brahmins could not have been so. If Mr. Winternitz had possessed the slightest acquaintance with some of the ancient Tamil classics such as the Thirukkural and the Purananooru which were produced at the beginning and long before the beginning of the Christian era, he might have easily discovered that it was the Tamil Saints and Sages who had been the real founders of the ascetic poetry. In proof of what I have said about the origin of the ascetic poetry, let me quote here the English translation of a verse in the Purananooru collection, which I inserted in my English work on “The Ancient and Modern Tamil Poets” and which contains the gist of the ascetic poetry.
	“All places are ours, all are our kith and kin,
  	Good and evil come, not caused by others;
	Pain and relief are brought likewise, not by others;
  	Dying is not new; nor living gave us joy;
	Misery we hated not. As in the flood,
	Caused by clouds that poured in torrents
	On a mountain top with lightning flash,
	A raft goes in the direction of the stream,
	So the swarm of lives move onward
	In the way of destiny. This we have discerned
	From the teachings of sages strong in wisdom.
	So we admire not the great; nor scoff at the churl.”
This Tamil verse was composed by the poet Kanian Poongundran who existed most probably in the pre-Buddhistic period. The poets whose poems form the collection of Purananooru existed from 3000 B.C. to the first century A.D. But our poet Poongundran and some others of his time and that preceding his do not seem to have lived at the time when either the Aryan or the Buddhist influence had come into operation in Southern India. It was Asoka who first sent Buddhist missionaries to the south to preach the moral teaching of the Buddha; but the Tamil people had already been in possession of such comprehensive moral and religious principles as not only included within their range the moral maxims of Buddhism but even went beyond them in inculcating the whorship of one Almighty God of the universe and the principle of non-killing and abstinence from flesh-eating to its very highest limit. In the poems of Poongundran and some others of his type are found the very pith and marrow of the great ethical and religious teachings of the ancient Tamil Saints and Sages, the special features of which cannot be traced to any Aryan or Buddhist ethical codes and religious texts. The Poet Poongundran, therefore, seems to my mind to belong to a period when neither the Aryan nor the Buddhist mode of thought came to exercise any influence on the minds of the Tamil thinkers in the south.
Further I have shown elsewhere27 that the Buddhist ethical religion itself was a development of one important phase of the Tamilian faith, that is, of the religion of love and mercy-love and mercy which must be shown not only to human beings but also to the very lowest of the animal kingdom. In proof of this let met quote a few verses from the Sacred Kural of St. Thiruvalluvar who lived in the latter half of the first century A.D.
“All letters have A as their first cause.
		So also does the whole world own but one
		God as its first cause.”
“Those who have gained the feet of Lord
		Will cross the ocean of births,
		While others cannot cross it in any wise.”
“The first of virtuous deeds is not to kill,
		The next to it is not to lie.”
“Instead of offering a thousand sacrifices
		with clarified butter,
 It is good not to kill a living being
		and eat the flesh thereof.”
“If there be love and charity in one’s household,
		That forms the virtue and fruit of it.”
“All living beings are equal from the
		very nature of birth,
	While distinction springs from variety
		of callings.”
“Those who renounce all attain to heaven.
		Others get into the snare lured by 
		mistaken mind.”
While verses of this ascetic character abound in the old classical Tamil literature, very scarcely do we meet in it with those which mention with approval any of the Brahmanic doctrines. The social, moral and religious principles which the ancient Tamil poems inculcate are so comprehensive in their character and so broad in their outlook that they embrace within their fold all the true and high principles that are common to all people, irrespective of caste, creed and country.
And it must be borne in mind that all the great teachings, enshrined in the ascetic poetry, written either in Sanscrit or in Tamil, centre round the figure of the great Yogi and almighty God of the world, Lord Rudra or Siva.
More still the significant fact must be impressed that the Lord Rudra as depicted in a few hymns of the Rig Veda is not in any way different from, but is quite identical with, the Lord Siva of both the ancient and modern forms of Saiva religion. And the very paucity of the hymns - for there are only five entire hymns addressed to Rudra in the whole of the Rig Veda which contains 1017 hymns in all of which 250 are devoted to the praise of Indra, itself testifies to the Tamilian origin of the Rudra-cult. And it is only in the hymns to Indra that the Aryas pray as much for their being discriminated from their foes the non-Aryas whom they call the Dasas or Dasyus as for the wholesale destruction of the latter; whereas in the hymns addressed to Rudra no such bitter racial hatred nor any Aryan malignity make their detestable appearance. Further, it is only in the hymns to Indra that the horrible sacrifices attended with the cruel and inhuman slaughter of animals and the drinking revelry of the Aryas are referred to, whereas in the hymns to Rudra neither such bloody sacrifices nor drinking bouts are even remotely alluded to. Do not these two different types of hymns make it quite clear that Indra was the favourite god of the Aryas, while Rudra was the special god of the Tamils? As pointed out by Dr. Slater, Siva makes no demands for any kind of bloody sacrifies, as Indra and other Aryan deities do.
Now, in corroboration of what has been said so far, evidence of still greater and more permanent value has come forth from the recent excavations carried on at Harappa and Mohenjo-daro in the Punjab, where the once highly civilized states of the Tamilians existed before the advent of the Aryan nomads, but which are now unearthed only in a ruined condition. Among the objects that have been discovered there is a stone image, the posture and the peculiar half-shut eyes of which have been thought by one authority to represent the attitude of the Yogi in contemplation.28 Similarly are discovered some stone and pottery seal amulets on which was found stamped “a nude deity, with horns and three faces seated on a stool with his heels pressed closely together in what is evidently a religious attitude.” 29 With respect to this figure Dr. Mackay says: “Sir John Marshall has identified this figure as the Indian god Shiva, in his aspect of Pasupathi or Lord of Beasts. The fact that the god is shown on the seal-amulet with three faces, and perhaps even a fourth on the side turned away, gives strong support to Sir John’s theory, for Shiva was, and is, pictured in India with as many as five faces. It has always been suspected that he was one of the oldest Indian gods and that his worship dated from the prehistoric period, a supposition which is justified by this interpretation of this seal amulet.30
And as regards the pre-historic antiquity of the Saiva religion, Sir John Marshall himself has written:
“Among the many revelations that Mohenjodaro and Harappa have had in store for us, none perhaps is more remarkable than this discovery that Saivism has a history going back to the Chalco-lithic age or perhaps even further still and that it thus takes its place as the most ancient living faith in the world.”31
From this impartial utterance of an eminent archaeologist the fact that Saivam had been the religion of the pre-Aryan Tamils who occupied the whole of India 5000 years ago, must become quite and well established.
Now, the following treatise is based on the contents of the paper read as the presidential address in the annual gathering of “The Madras Presidency College Philosophical Association” which took place on the 15th November 1922. And again at the request of the Secretary of “The Universal Religious Conference,” it was read at its third day session on the 31st of March, 1923. It was but the earnest desire of the organisers of both the conventions to familiarize themselves and the educated public at large with the principles of the Saiva Siddhanta, the great South Indian system of thought, in a succinct yet clear form, that occasioned the writing of this short treatise.
A little after the time that called it forth, some of the points briefly touched in that paper seemed to me to require a somewhat enlarged treatment, and a clear comprehension of this has now been attempted and done to a reasonable extent in the following expansion of the above work.
Still, I cannot pretend to have given a full exposition of all the fundamental principles of the Saiva Siddhanta. To do so would require a large volume in itself. And for embodying the results of my critical and comparative study of almost all the systems of philosophy, both eastern and western, carried on in relation to the Saiva Siddhanta, I have a great mind to write a book of much more useful and comprehensive kind; but I do not know whether I would be spared by Providence to undertake the task and be enabled by it to accomplish the great work which I have ever in my view.
Still, within its limited scope, it is my belief the present work has done its best not only to give a clear exposition of some of the fundamental and most important principles of the Saiva Siddhanta, but to show also the close resemblance they bear to modern European and American thought as devoloped by John Stuart Mill, James Martineau, William James, F.C.S.Schiller, James Ward, Bergson, Eucken, Henry Drummond, James Sully and others.
But many who read the history of both the ancient and modern philosophical system of the east and the west, are little acquainted with the Saiva Siddhanta and they even think that the Vedanta, as interpreted by Sankaracharya, is the only philosophy which has reached the high watermark of the Hindu, or rather, Indian thought. Unfortunately this misunderstanding is due not a little to the stark ignorance in which are kept the oriental scholars, in respect of the Saiva Siddhanta and Tamil literature. The fact must be borne in mind that in Tamil alone exist systematic, authoritative works on the Saiva Siddhanta whereas in Sanscrit either in the Vedic or in the post-Vedic period not even a single systematic work on this philosophy is to be met with, even though its principal tenets are found scattered with much that is rubbish, in the Upanishads and in the Samkhya, the Yoga, the Nyaya, the Vaiseshika and the Vedanta works.
For this grievous ignorance of Tamil literature and the Saiva Siddhanta, it is the early contact of the western scholars with the Brahmins that is responsible; for the Brahmins almost without an exception detest the Tamil people, their language, religion and philosophy and do not like to show the value of the knowledge of Tamil and Tamilian thought to a mighty foreigner, but take every precaution to represent with all their eagerness Sanscrit to be only divine language treasuring the genuine thoughts of the Saints and Sages of India who pondered over the ultimate problems of life and life’s existence and arrived at their correct solutions.
The more the influence of the Brahmins who are usually of a pushing nature, increased with the Europeans, the more the study of Sanscrit and Sanscrit literature rose into prominence, and the more study of Tamil and pure Tamil classics came to be thrown into oblivion. And as the pluralistic philosophy of the Tamils stands diametrically opposed to the pantheistic system of the Brahmins, in the same way as the strictly monotheistic religion of the Tamils shows itself to be in marked contrast with, the latter’s polytheistic creed, the aversion of the Brahmins for the Tamils grew more and more intense in proportion to the degree in which the excellence of the Tamilian thought came to be secretrly recognized by the Brahmins. So they totally denied, just as they do even at this scientific age, that there was anything valuable to know outside the pale of Sanscrit. Consequently the knowledge of Tamil and Tamil classics had to lie concealed, or rather unrecognized, for centuries, even from the searching eye of the European intellect, until a few learned and very painstaking Christian missionaries such as Dr. Caldwell and Dr.G.U.Pope ventured to turn their serious attention to Tamil classics and devote their whole life-time to a deep study and correct representation of their nature and contents. In spite of all their labours, the Tamilian thought cannot be said to have received still the attention it deserves from the European and American thinkers.
It is my humble ambition to present to the English knowing people the main principle of the Saiva Siddhanta in as succinct a form as possible, that has prompted me to attempt the writing of this short treatise in English. Those who possess no knowledge of this philosophy and its original source may marvel at its remarkable resemblance to modern thought and may even doubt whether what I have treated here really belongs to the Saiva Siddhanta. To such I would recommend the study of the fine and faithful English translation of the Thiruvarut-payan, a brief but authoritative work in Tamil on this system of philosophy, inserted by Dr.G.U.Pope in the introduction to his scholarly English rendering of the Thiruvachakam, the sacred lyrical poem of St. Manickavachakar.
In concluding this preface, I beg to acknowledge my deep indebtedness to Dr. F.C.S. Schiller of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, who, at my request, took trouble, in the midst of his college work and arduous philosophic labours, with his usual kindness to authors, to go through this treatise in manuscript and not only made in it many valuable suggestions and corrections but also furnished a sympathetic note to this unpretentious work on the Saiva Siddhanta.
After Dr. Schiller returned the manuscript, I set myself to the task of enlarging certain points here and there and getting the prepared portions printed in my Press.
But this work I could not carry on continuously, since it was interrupted every now and then by my incessant labout in Tamil. Moreover, I consider my Tamil work to be more important than the work I intend to do in English. For my Tamil brethren are mostly illiterate and even the very few who are literate are unenlightened and unprogressive socially, morally, intellectually and religiously. Therefore I had to apply myself most strenuously for more than forty years to the hard labour of bringing enlightenment to my countrymen in almost all the most useful and important branches of knowledge by lectures and by the production of Tamil works which have come to more than forty up till now. It is this continuous lecturing and writing work in Tamil that has delayed the publication of this short English treatise for nearly eighteen years. I pay my humble homage to the sacred feet of the almightly God, for having enabled me to bring this out after so long a period of time.
Pallavaram,
29th April, 1940							                       Vedachalam.
Footnotes
1. 	Pragmatism, p.13. 
2. 	Taken from Dr. G.U. Pope’s translation of the Thiruvarutpayan; 	see his Translation of the  Thiruvachakam. p.li.
3.  	Dr.E. Caird’s “The Evolution of Religion,” vol.1.p.227.
4. 	The Realm of Ends, p.204
5. 	Ibid, p.18
6 . 	Riddles of the Sphinx, 2nd edition, p.403.
7.	Ibid, p.434.
8.  	Natural Law in the Spiritual World, cheap Ed., p. 29.
9.  	The Realm of Ends. p.213.
10.  	Riddles of the Sphinx, p.298.
11. 	Vedic India, pp.284-285.
12. 	Ibid, pp.318-320.
13. 	Ibid pp.292,293 
14. 	Ibid pp.308,309.
15.  	Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Languages p.69.
16. 	Ibid, p.54.
17.  	See M. Barth’s Religions of India, p.163, footnote
18.  	The Cambridge History of Ancient India, pp. 144-145.
19. 	The Religion and Philosophy of the Veda and Upanish ads, Vol. 	I.pp.143 & 146.
20. 	Rig-Vedic Culture, by Mr. A.C. Das, pp.56-96.
21. 	The Cambridge History of India, Vol.1,p.72.
22.  	“History of Civilisation” edited by J.M. Robertson and published 	by Routledge,p.80.
23.  	The Dravidian Element in Indian Culture, by  Gilbert Slater, M.A., 	D.Sc., p.50	
24. 	Ibid, p.110.
25. 	A. Barth’s ‘The Religions of India’,p.14.
26.  	The Religions of India, p.165.
27. 	Refer to my Tamil work on “The Life and Times  of St. 		Manickavachakar.”
28.	See The Indus Civilization by Dr. Ernest Mackay, p.66.
29. 	Ibid. p.70.
30. 	Ibid, p.70,71.
31. 	Mohenjo-daro and the Indus civilization, Vol.I. 
















SAIVA SIDDHANTA AS A PHILOSOPHY OF PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE
“Philosophy” says Professor William James in his monumental work on religion.1 “lives in words, but truth and fact well up into our lives in ways that exceed verbal formulations.” In these words what he means to insist on is that a philosophy, bearing no vital and intimate relation to the stern realities of life, is like an empty and dead body that has lost the pre-eminent principle of consciousness which makes it both valuable and useful. From the earliest times, here in India as in Greece and other western countries, there have been, and still are, in existence, various systems of philosophy and various kinds of religion, a great many of which are mostly built upon mere imaginations, assumptions and fancies. But Saiva Siddhanta, unique amongst them all, is grounded solely upon sound practicalities of life. Even on rare occasions when it reaches the very outskirts of practical reason to jump into unexplored regions of pure reason, it does not venture to disappear completely from our sight without leaving behind at least a clue for us to discover how it went there and what it was that enticed it away from its native home. 
Numerous problems which it solves are solved in the crucible of stringent practical tests. Nothing in it is taken for granted, nor anything is asserted arrogantly, nor any attempt made to shut the mouth of an earnest and inquiring student. Every problem and every knotty point in the history of thought is taken up in a calm, serious and dignified mood, is duly considered in all its aspects, and is then solved by the application of strict logical methods derived from the keen observations of daily occurrences in life. As has been effectively said by Prof. William James that “to attain perfect clearness in our thoughts of an object, we need then only consider what sensations, immediate or remote we are conceivably to expect from it, and what conduct we must prepare in case the object should be true. Our conception of these practical consequences is for us the whole of our conception of the object, so far as that conception has positive significance at all.”2 Saiva Siddhanta, again in his words, “could never get away from concrete life or work in a conceptual vacuum.”3 It is my humble desire to impress on your mind the importance of this position of Saiva Siddhanta - this practical point of view from which it proceeds to argue the three categories of life, namely mind and matter and Supreme Self or, in the language of this philosophy Pasu, Pasam and Pathi.
But at the present time as in the past, in complete opposition to this practical stand-point of Saiva Siddhanta, there are prevalent everywhere many fanciful theories of which one holds that all knowledge derived through sense perception from the practical affairs of life, being the knowledge of individual things passing every moment out of existence, cannot be admitted to have permanent value, but must be given up as untrue and illusive, and only that knowledge acquired through direct intuitive perception of a thing abstract and everexisting should be accepted as true and valuable. However attractive and convincing this may seem to some light-minded people, it cannot satisfy the cravings of the serious-minded. In abstractions man can never live long. He has a substantial body made of flesh and blood; and many and varied are his needs. To meet his daily wants, he seeks not after abstract but concrete things, by working hard and unremittingly both night and day. When his hunger is acute, his thirst is unbearable, you cannot persuade him to imagine that he is taking sweet and wholesome food and drinking cool, fresh and clear water. He will simply treat with scorn any such suggestion and will go his way in search of a spot where he can really get his food and drink. Similar are his other requirements which can be gratified only by concrete things.
Some may object to this by saying that in a future state of existence when man can live free from the contact and contamination of this gross earthly matter, not only will life in an abstract world be possible but it must also constitute the only true goal to attain which man, while he is on this earth, must strive hard to cultivate the habit of forgetting this world and its transitory objects and must learn to live in the thought of the pure and real Absolute. But this future state and the mode of life thus claimed for it, I venture to say, we have no means of knowing, What certainly is there that this form of abstact life will lead to a similar state of life in future? What is there to prove that this is the right method to attain salvation? Who are those that have forgotten this world in this way? And what is that on which they fix their mind? Our knowledge is limited, it is true; still we want to know what proofs there are for such assertions. If you discard all proofs and simply indulge in asserting your own opinions, you are narrowing the extent of your mental plane and increasing the power of darkness that limits and encircles it. The more you shut the light of practical reason out, the more you let the gloom of ignorance into your mind and make all intellectual progress an impossibility.
No doubt the course of our mind’s development began in a remote past and runs through our present; and there is every reason to believe that it will project itself into a distant future. Limited as are the conditions of his life, man alone, of all living beings, is endowed with that wonderful faculty of reason which enables him to extend his vision both backwards and forwards with the help of the present. In this consists his glory. He cannot afford to lose the present. If he should deliberately wish to lose it, granting it possible for argument’s sake, though it is psychologically impossible, his mind would become a mere blank or a vacuum and he dead, though living, like a maniac, if a maniac can be conceived to think no thoughts. 
Even were it possible for some peculiarly constituted person to construct an abstract world out of his own mind, is it possible to think that it is not a copy of some fragment of this external world? Is it not  a persisting law of nature that each and every image formed in the mind of man, is formed, in some way or other, to reproduce an external fact of nature? I cannot state this intimate relation of an abstract idea to a concrete thing better than in the words of an eminent scientist and thinker Dr. James Ward who says: “In abstract theory, then, we may introduce first one particle and then another, each moving in given directions in absolute space, and we may talk of their speed as measured by absolute time flowing equably without relation to anything else. But, in reality, nothing of this kind is accessible to us.”4 He continues: “It is easy to see that the mechanical theory is here divided against itself, and in this state cannot stand. Experience compels it to admit the thorough-going interdependence of all bodies, while mathematics tempts it to suppose that it is possible to deal with bodies independently and apart. The bodies which mathematics would regard as isolated wholes are but undetermined fragments of what is really indivisible, abstract aspects that never exist alone.”5 This vedict of a great scientific voice should be sufficient to settle any lingering doubt as regards the untenable position of the abstract theory. Even here, in proving the unsoundness of the abstract theory, one would see that appeal is made to concrete things. Can you conceive of motion apart from a moving body? Can you think of a virtuous act out of its relation to a bounteous man? Can you picture to your mind the glowing colours of blue, crimson, yellow, green and purple except as they are painted in the sky on a bright winter evening, or as found in some beautiful fruits and flowers? These facts brought to bear upon the abstract theory, in comparison with the practical or pragmatic view of Saiva Siddhanta, will clearly show that to form a correct estimate of an abstract idea, it must be related to the object which gave rise to it. This truth was long ago seen and enforced in clear and unmistakable terms by one of the profoundest thinkers of the last century, I mean, John Stuart Mill to whose genius the British philosophy owes its breadth and modern development. He says: “It is one of the most unquestionable of all logical maxims that the meaning of the abstract must be sought for in the concrete, and not conversely.”6
St. Meikandan, the first systematic expounder of Saiva Siddhanta in Tamil, held, six hundred and fifty years ago, that “but for life in the concrete, which serves like lamp-light to illumine the understanding of the soul, the self can know nothing nor can it discriminate one thing from the other; for just as a piece of wood hides fire within itself, so the evil principle which is darkness itself envelops the soul from eternity.”7 To explain the matter so tersely put by St. Meikandan in a single stanza of his great work, the Sivajnanabodham in Tamil, would require several hours which we cannot spare now. I shall, therefore, touch on it briefly. 
By concrete life the Saint means the life that is going on in intimate union with this organic body and all its organs, this earth and all its objects. Independently of this form of life, he holds, the Self cannot evolve, nor can it attain to a knowledge of itself and its environment, nor can it escape from the trammels of evil, sin and ignorance. To understand clearly this abstract teaching of our Saint, we must again have recourse to a concrete example. Let us compare a newborn child with a magnet. For, as has been told by Prof. James Sully, that “unless we could observe in children and the lower animals the simpler forms of mental processes, we should be unable to trace back the complexities of adult consciousness to their constituent elements, and even with this help, we can only carry such analytical simplification of physical phenomena to a certain degree of completeness.”8 Now the child has a supple body made of living matter and completely fitted up with all complex organs; but the magnet is not made so; it has neither living matter nor any growing organs.
 Still there is a little similarity between the child and the magnet. When hungry, the child sucks the breast of her mother; and the magnet also draws towards itself little pieces of iron, although you cannot attribute to it any motive for its action, as in the case of  the child. So much for their similarity. Now comes a difference which is most vital and significant of results. As soon as her hunger is appeased, the child leaves off sucking but the magnet never lets the iron pieces go, unless another force comes into play between them. Further, as days and months pass by, the child learns, step by step, to make an intelligent use of her organs and, as years roll on, she becomes more and more intelligent and in proportion to the growth of her intelligence she becomes more and more independent. But all this time of the child’s growth, our magnet lies quiet with the iron pieces so much so that we can confidently predict that its state in the future will ever continue to be the same unless otherwise disturbed. To every thinking mind, these observations of the two cannot but reveal certain momentous facts. Though the body of the child and that of the magnet are both made of matter, the body of the child has something more added to it while that of the magnet has nothing of that sort. Now, it must be apparent to you that this additional something in the child is not a property of her body, just as the force in the magnet is its property, but is an independent entity separable from its corporal matter as is seen in the case of a dead infant. Nor can this separable something be another material but subtle body, inclosed within this gross material sheath, since the living frame  of a child or any other human being has not been found to weigh heavier than the dead one but is remarkably lighter than that. It is a commonly admitted fact that a body instinct with life is much lighter than when it is without it. 
If this be a real fact which awaits the scientific test for its correctness, it will go to prove that life is not another material substance but an immaterial and imponderable something which has not been found to add to its weight when it remains one with it nor has it been to lessen it when it leaves that body. Nor again, can this something be a form of blind energy such as heat, light and electricity, since it is conscious of itself and its actions, since it performs its functions not according to blind and uniform mechanical laws but according to its own freewill and fancy which cannot be brought out by any known agency under any fixed laws. How markedly this contrast between the material body and that something which dwells inside of it, is set forth by Prof. William James, may be seen clearly from what he says in his larger work on Psychology. “If some iron filings.” he writes, “be sprinkled on a table and a magnet brought near them, they will fly through the air for a certain distance and stick to its surface. A savage seeing the phenomenon explains it as the result of an attraction or love between the magnet and the filings. But let a card cover the poles of the magnet, and the filings will press for ever against its surface without its ever occurring to them to pass around its sides and thus come into more direct contact with the object of their love. 
Blow bubbles through a tube into the bottom of a pail of water, they will rise to the surface and mingle with the air. Their action may again be poetically interpreted as due to a longing to recombine with the mother-atmosphere above the surface. But if you invert a jar full of water over the pail, they will rise and remain lodged beneath its bottom, shut in from the outer air, although a slight deflection from their course at the outset, or a re-descent towards the rim of the jar when they found their upward course impeded, would easily have set them free. If now we pass from such actions as these to those of living things, we notice a striking difference. Romeo wants Juliet as the filings want the magnet; and if no obstacles intervene he moves towards her by as straight a line as they. But Romeo and Juliet, if a wall be built between them, do not remain idiotically pressing their faces against its opposite sides like the magnet and the filings with the card. Romeo soon finds a circuitous way, by scaling the wall or otherwise, of touching Juliet’s lips directly. With the filings the path is fixed; whether it reaches the end depends on accidents. With the lover it is the end which is fixed, the path may be modified indefinitely.”9 He then continues: “The pursuance of future ends and choice of means for their attainment are thus the mark and criterion of the presence of mentality in a phenomenon.” 10
But among men of science in the latter half of the last century, attempts have been made to identify this intelligent principle with its corporeal matter by experiments carried out with a set purpose to evolve life out of lifeless matter. Frotunately for us, students of philosophy, Prof. John Tyndall, a scientist of great repute, proved, once for all, by carefully-conducted experiments, that life is not produced from lifeless matter but for its production the influence of another life must precede it necessarily. In his luminous essay on ‘Spontaneous Generation,’ after describing the details of the numerous experiments very cautiously conducted by himself on test conditions, he concludes, “These and other experiments, carried out with a severity perfectly obvious to the instructed scientific reader, and accompanied by a logic equally severe, restored the conviction that, even in these lower reaches of the scale of being, life does not appear without the operation of antecedent life.”11 (Italics are mine). This vital conclusion reached by Prof. Tyndall in the year 1878, still remains unshaken, and the vast number of researches made by the succeeding generations of scientific men from his day up to the present, simply go to confirm it with added strength. 
Sir Oliver Lodge, a great living authority in Science, expresses more pronounced views on this momentous question of life and it is very gratifying to note that this opinion of his and similar others pertaining to religion and philosophy bear a close resemblance to those of St. Meikandan. He says in his admirable book on Life and Matter; “The view concerning life which I have endeavoured to express is that it is neither matter nor energy, nor even a function of matter or of energy, but is something belonging to a different category; that by some means at present unknown it is able to interact with the material world for a time, but that it can also exist in some sense independently; although in that condition of existence it is by no means apprehensible by our senses. 
It is dependent on matter for its phenomenal appearance-for its manifestation to us here and now, and for all its terrestrial activities; but otherwise,   I conceive that it is independent, that its essential existence is continuous and permanent, though its interactions with matter are discontinuous and temporary; and I conjecture that it is subject to a law of evolution-that a linear advance is open to it-whether it be in its phenomenal or in its occult state.”12 In another place of the same book he observes, “We do not know to generate life without the action of antecedent life at present, though that may be a discovery lying ready for us in the future; but even if we did, it would still be true (as I think) that the life was in some sense preexistent, that it was not really created de novo, that it was brought into actual practical every-day existence doubtless, but that it had pre-existed in some sense too.”13 Again in the concluding pages of that book, he states, “So far, however, all effort at spontaneous generation has been a failure; possibly because some essential ingredient or condition was omitted, possibly because great lapse of time was necessary. But suppose it was successful; what then? We should then be repoducing in the laboratory a process that must at some past age have occurred on the earth; for at one time the earth was certainly hot and molten and inorganic, whereas now it swarms with life. Does that show that the earth generated life? By no means; no more than it need necessarily have generated all the gases of its atmosphere, or the meteoric dust which lies upon its snows.”14 These extracts from a living scientist’s work will suffice to represent the attitude of modern science towards the solution arrived at by Tyndall and Meikandan concerning the problem of life and matter. 

Not only by experiments but even under our own daily observations, we find in the core of every living material body, set in the sharpest contrast to it, an immaterial, conscious and intelligent principle which you may call by whatever name you choose such as mind, life, self, soul, ego, spirit, atma and uyir.  
Though the soul is thus naturally distinct from matter, we see it here only in an intimate union with a material body. Why this intimacy between the two was brought about, has also been explained by St. Meikandan not from any assumed, unfounded and fanciful theory but from the same and simple practical point of view as is within the easy reach of all reflective minds. The purpose of this union, he says, is to bring enlightenment to the individual soul which lies immersed in mental gloom. For a clear comprehension of this fact we must again turn to our old example. Watch the condition of the new-born infant. For some days since her birth, she remains for the most part in deep sleep, except at stated intervals when pinched by hunger and thirst, she opens her eyes and cries. Immediately the gracious and loving mother takes her to her breast and suckles her. Thus satisfied, the child remains for a while awake and then goes again to sleep. In these dim beginnings of child life, only a feeble ray of mental light peeps through for a short time and thereafter all is again deep and thick gloom. 
Observe here how the provision of benign Nature, without permitting the child to sleep away all her time in darkness, through hunger and thirst, taps at her like her gentle mother and brings her back, every now and then, to consciousness and activity. Here, then, we see clearly two opposite principles at work, both in close connexion with the child’s mental life, one seeking to draw the child’s consciousness off from the other’s grip, while the other easily drags it back to its empty cellar of pitchy darkness. The child’s body is so constituted as to call forth and disengage her consciousness little by little from the possession of mental darkness, while this darkness itself works all the time against it and regains its influence over the soul in every next moment. To this earliest struggle that is going on in the life of every human offspring, might be traced all the later and more complicated contests both in the individual and social lives of mankind. So far, it is as clear as day light that three principles, considerably diversified in nature and character, co-exist in one inseparable unity, each  interpenetrating the other in a mysterious manner. Of these three, one is an individual mind, the other a darkening and limiting cause which we may call as a subtle and peculiar kind of matter, if the term matter may be so extended as to include in its meaning that which is imponderable and non-intelligent but has a certain manifest power of direct action, and the third a tangible, visible and extremely complex organic body which by degrees serves to evoke the consciousness of the indwelling spirit and enables it to develop and display all the infinite potentialities of its mind.
In the terminology of Saiva Siddhanta these three are called Pasu, Pasam and Maya. Here it is necessary to distinguish between the meaning of the term Maya as used in the philosophy of Saiva Siddhanta and that used in the modern Vedanta. We do not find this word Maya anywhere either in the ancient Vedas or in the earliest Upanishads. It makes its first appearance only in a later Upanishad called Svetasvatara; even there it is used not as a name for some deceptive phenomenon but as a synonym for the term Prakriti which signifies the primordial cause of matter and all its products such as this world and all its objects. The doctrine of illusion is quite unknown to the Svetasvatara and still older works of the Aryan tongue. In the Saiva Siddhanta too, this term Maya is invariably employed to signify the substratum of all the material worlds and their contents. 
The meaning of deception which it has acquired in the neo-Vedanta is of comparatively modern date and as such it finds no place in the ancient Vedanta, as has been conclusively shown by the profound Vedic scholar Mr. Behari Lal Sastri. He says in his Thesaurus of Vedic Knowledge, “The Mayavada or illusion theory of later Vedantism appears in some of the modern commentaries of the Upanishads and the Vedanta Sutras.”15 To Saiva Siddhanta, treasuring as it does the golden thoughts of ancient Indian Saints and Sages, this illusion-theory of neo-Vedanta is quite foreign, it being throughout concerned with the hard realities of life and strict in using, consistently to its principle, the term Maya to denote the real basic element of matter and its appearances. 
From these few and simple observations of the beginnings of child’s life, it is plain how this complex body comes into this world bearing within its womb a blind, sleepy and undeveloped soul, how it afterwards tends to awaken it from its torpor and stimulate it to respond to the summons made from without and how as time advances it forms itself as a medium of unequal importance to bring its activities into vital relations with the objects of an external world. If this body be not given, or if it be cut off prematurely, what the state of this finite soul would be is easy to imagine. Surely it must lie in the same blinding darkness as it is found to be when it comes into this world, it would have no consciousness either of itself or of its surroundings, it would have no means of getting out of this imprisonment, nor would it have a knowledge of other finite souls or be known by them if all including myself and yourselves had remained deep buried in that impenetrable gloom. 
It is only after we are sent into this world clothed in this wonderfully constructed body with all its internal and external organs made and adjusted in faultless perfection, that we are able to see each other, mingle with one another physically, morally and intellectually. If there be any defect in this organism, if you are born blind, deaf, or mute, you are made unable to see, hear and talk and lose thereby the knowledge you can otherwise acquire. The more these deficiencies increase, the more the growth of your mind is hindered and the more the blinding power of darkness over soul increases. Now, then, a perfect organism-perfect in all its parts and adjustments constitutes an immediate and most important condition for the enlightenment of all individual souls.
Next to it come other conditions such as this world, its objects and other sentient beings as human, animal and vegetable. If all these had not remained ready-made, before the advent of the soul here in its earthly tenement, the very advent of it is rendered unthinkable and absolutely impossible. It follows, therefore, as an inevitable conclusion that this world and      all objects of experience form a second great condition necessary to the evolution and enlightenment of individual minds. These two conditions, St. Meikandan would call as the effects of Maya, the first cause of matter. In the midst of these conditions are set all the finite selves for the sake of their development. In the language of Biology these two conditions are called as Heredity and Environment. Of these two, Prof. Henry Drummond, an original thinker and able expositor of Religion in the light of modern science, says, “Mr. Darwin, following Weismann, long ago pointed out that there are two main factors in all Evolution-the nature of the organism and the nature of the conditions.* * * These two, Heredity and Environment, are the master-influences of the organic world. 
These have made all of us what we are. These forces are still ceaselessly playing upon all our lives. And he who truly understands these influences; he who has decided how much to allow to each; he who can regulate new forces as they arise, or adjust them to the old, so directing them as at one moment to make them co-operate, at another to counteract one another, understands the rationale of personal development. To seize continuously the opportunity of more and more perfect adjustment to better and higher conditions, to balance some inward evil with some purer influence acting from without, in a world to make our environment at the same time that it is making us-these are the secrets of well-ordered and successful life.”16 Is not this statement of an eminent scientist but an echo of Saint Meikandan’s voice which resounded throughout this land of philosophy some six hundred years ago? “Every living thing,” again in the words of Drummond, “normally requires for its development an Environment containing air, light, heat, and water. In addition to these, if vitality is to be prolonged for any length of time, and it it is to be accompanied with growth and the expenditure of energy, there must be a constant supply of food. 
When we simply remember how indispensable food is to growth and work, and    when we further bear in mind that the food-supply is solely contributed by the Environment, we shall realise at once the meaning and the truth of the proposition that without Environment there can be no life.”17 Holding the same view as he does, Saint Meikandan goes a step forward and insists that not only for life but also for the enlightenment of its understanding, environment, (that is to say, a body and an external world with objects of senses,) is required as an absolutely necessary condition. This thoughtful teaching of our Saint, in addition to being a veritable fact of our experience, finds its corroboration in the works of our modern scientists as I have just now shown.
At this point I would like to warn you against being carried away by the opinions and sentiments of certain great names associated with the school of thinkers called neo-Vedantins who simply assert that this organism and all its surroundings are mere myths and false creations of a deluded mind, a deceptive product of gross ignorance. You must bear in mind that this assertion of neo-Vedantins is nothing more than a mere assertion devoid of all proof. To some, nay even to many, this may seem to be a workable hypothesis, but this hypothesis, not being demonstrable, leads to no positive and fruitful conclusion. Where all is ignorance or nescience there is no room for any kind of knowledge. See how emphatically this doctrine of nescience is rejected by so great a scientific thinker as Dr. James Ward who says, “But unless we are prepared to repudiate logic altogether, this sharp severance of known and unknown, knowable and unknowable must be abandoned, so radical are the contradictions that beset it. 
Where nescience is absolute, nothing can be said, neither that there is more to know nor that there is not. But if science were verily in itself complete, this could only mean that there was no more to know; and then there could be and would be no talk of an environing nescience.”18 If all that we think, will and do are the outcome of ignorance, why, then, strive after acquisition of knowledge? Why seek ye to know God? If all be ignorance, what is knowledge then? Is it not a fact that only after we have come to know who we are and  what our surroundings are, that we are able to distinguish between knowledge and ignorance? Does not the very act of knowing what ignorance is, imply a knowing agent, his knowing intellect and the knowledge arising and resulting from the combination of the two? If ignorance be a fact, that fact cannot be known unless there be an intelligence to know it. For, as has been so well pointed out by Dr.F.C.S.Schiller, “Facts must be interpreted by intelligence, but intelligence always operates upon the basis of previously established fact. The growth of knowledge is an active assimilation of the new by the old. Or in other words, our hypotheses are suggested by, and start from, the facts of already established knowledge, and then are tested by experience.”19 From this you see, to know and interpret ignorance, you require a knowing intelligence and not another ignorance. And even this new progress of knowledge presupposes another old one, and that a still older one and so on, until we reach a tiny point where the faint glimmer of the light of intelligence gleams as in the first beginnings of a child’s life. 
Although we are unable to stretch our observation beyond this limit, we can confidently say if the inferential process of proceeding from what is known to unknown can be relied upon, that the dark line of ignorance and the gleaming bright line of intelligence, observable not only in the human child but also in the very lowest types of life, must ever recede into an indefinite past running parallel to each other, just as they are seen to project into a similarly indefinite future, without the one ever merging in the other so as to become one inseparable thing. How truly said are the words of the profound psychologist, Frederic Myers, relating to this parallel existence of ignorance and intelligence in the mental atmosphere of all living beings, may be seen from what he states in his great work on Human Personality that “Optical analysis splits up the white ray into the various coloured rays which compose it. 
Philosophical analysis in like manner  splits up the vague consciousness of the child into many faculties; - into the various external senses, the various modes of thought within. This has been the task of descriptive and introspective psychology. Experimental psychology is adding a further refinement. In the sun’s spectrum and in stellar spectra, are many dark lines or bands, due to the absorption of certain vapours in the atmosphere of sun or stars or earth. And similarly in the range of specturm of our own sensation and faculty there are many inequalities-permanent and temporary, of brightness and definition. Our mental atmosphere is clouded by vapours and illumined by fires, and is clouded and illumined differently at different times.”20 So, then, although it be an undeniable factor in the constitution of our mental phenomena, ignorance is not the be-all and end-all of our existence. Side by side with it, yet quite distinct from it, sparkles our intelligence ever aspiring to overcome it and get rid of its evil influence. 
Would any one of us here or elsewhere like to remain in ignorance all throughout his life? Should we like to be called ignorant men, idiots, fools and block-heads? No; cetainly not. On the other hand, we feel an ever-growing desire to become wiser and wiser, which is so deeply implanted in us that, prompted by it, we work hard day and night to acquire knowledge and dispel by its supreme light the huge darkness that enwraps our soul. Had this principle of darkness and evil been an essential part of ourselves, an inseparable property of our soul, would we like to part company with it, would we like to become wise and good souls? But the innate and noble aspiration felt in every one of us towards an attainment of the highest wisdom and the fullest goodness must itself be sufficient to show that evil ignorance, though it co-exists with all individual souls from time beyond limit, hindering their development and enlightenment, is not a property of  their mind as intelligence is a property, that it remains not as the prevailing condition of our existence but shows  clear signs of its being vanquished in the great battle21 that is being waged untiringly by the reasoning minds with the invaluable assistance of Maya or environment, under the guidance of a Supreme Intelligence, and that the hypothesis held by the neo-Vedantins that this organism and its surroundings are the mythical and deceptive creations of pure ignorance, must, therefore, be abandoned as quite untenable.
Now, it must also be very clear to you how the position of our Saint Meikandan becomes stronger and stronger as we approach nearer and nearer to a careful and penetrating study of the simple verities of our life and its growth. With Mekandan we must bid good-bye to the mere phantasies and chimerical ravings of certain imaginative thinkers-great though they seem in the eyes of a certain class of people, and go direct to the actual conditions of life to get a clear and true comprehension of their setting and ultimate purpose. This practical point of view inculcated by St. Meikandan in the philosophy of Saiva Siddhanta is in substantial agreement with the pragmatic view of such great modern thinkers as William James, Bergson, Eucken, Schiller, James Ward and others.
So far we have seen, by observing the beginnings of life, body and its environment to be veritable instruments of thought and this souls placed in their midst to make use of them with a view to rid themselves of the evil influence which the dark principle eternally co-existing with it exercises and to obtain power over it by enlightening their own understanding into perfection. This interaction between mind and matter is going on, we should say, for indefinite ages, for we know not when it began or how long it took to come to its present stage or when it will end.
Had there been but one individual soul instead of many, its evolution would not have taken so long and unlimited a period to complete it. But such is not the fact. There are countless individual souls ranging from the simplest and the minutest organic beings such as moneron, amoeba and protoplasm to the highest and the most complex organic beings called human. While maintaining a surface resemblance and a superficial law  of unity to its species or group, every organism and every ego that dwells within it, possesses unique characteristics which other members of its class do not share. The more the knowledge of science advances, the more the classification of groups and sub groups multiply. Instead of homogeneity being the law of nature, heterogeneity is becoming its determined law. This has been well pointed out by Dr. Schiller in his Formol Logic thus: “Darwin conclusively showed it be conceivable that one species might develop into another by the accumulation of individual differences under natural selection. Thus a species is really nothing but a temporary grouping of individuals, all of whom are indefinitely variable and capable of developing in various directions” He continues: “Species, therefore, ceases to exist as an ontological reality. The individual alone is real. He alone bears the burden of the whole past, and contains the promise and potentialities of all future development. We conclude, therefore, that science cannot be indifferent to him, and that the doctrine of real kinds is metaphysically false.”22
In spite of this demonstrated fact of science, some idealistic monists of the neo-Vedantic school still passionately cling to the doctrine which asserts that all the mental and material phenomena passing before us are not so many variant and distinct realitics but are mere shadows or reflections of an Absolute Being which alone is real. This too is a mere assertion, for according to it you cannot have any means of proving it, since all that is known is unreal and only that which is unknown is real. If all that we experience is unreal, then, let me ask ‘Who are you that argue thus please? If you are as you say an unreal phantom of an unknown something, why should we, who do not believe that we are such phantoms, believe you any more than any phantom of a dream? Why argue about the incomprehensible being of which you claim to be the inexplicalbe reflection?’ Such questions must inevitably be suggested to every thinking mind by this idealistic monism. We cannot evade them by eloquent preaching, or by quoting scriptural texts, or by claiming the authority of the learned over the unlearned. These objections will continue to arise in the mind of every one who confronts the hard problems and severe life-struggles that are ceaselessy going on within and without himself.
Another weak point in the doctrine of the idealistic monism is that it speaks of its absolute and transcendental being in the language of matter, We have seen visible and tangible substances casting shadows and reflections. Even among material substances those that are invisible like air and ether do not cast either shadows or reflections. How, then, can the incomprehensible Absolute, which is an immaterial, and consequently invisible and intangible being, throw out such despicable shadows and reflections as ourselves and our surroundings. To get over this difficulty he has created, the idealist has no other means but to create a further and still greater difficulty which too is contrary to all our experience. He says that all these individual selves, their bodies and surroundings being mere illusions, have no real existence of their own and as such do not affect the transcendent Absolute in the least, even if it is spoken of in terms of matter. 
This view of the idealists undermines the very fundamentals of knowledge, since he who strives to know the Absolute is as illusory as is the process of his knowing. Consequently his position must end in the same despair and ignorance as it was at the beginning. As I have already given a detailed criticism of this view, I would now pass by it by quoting the opinion on this subject of a great living authority in philosophy, Prof. Eucken. He states in his great work on Life’s Basis and Life’s Ideal: “From being a life penetrating power Pantheism becomes more and more a vague disposition; indeed an empty phrase. The living whole, which in the beginning raised things to itself, has finally become a mere abstraction which cannot hold its ground before vigorous thought. Thus, with an immanent dialectic, such as historical life often enough shows, the movement, since it strove for breath, has been destroyed in its life-giving root; it has abandoned the basis from which it derived its truth and power immanent Idealism shows itself to be one great contradiction; a fascinating illusion, which, instead of reality, presents us with mere appearance.”23
Then, there is the formidable theory of the materialistic monsists who exult in reducing all mind and matter to what they call ‘energy’ or ‘force.’ It is not at all plain how one can think of energy apart from the matter which produces it. By a most difficult and hard exercise of thought we may hope to abstract force from matter and imagine it to have a separate existence but whether we will succeed in it is the point at issue. Whenever we try to form an idea of motion, we are unconsicously led to bring into our mind the picture of a moving vehicle, or a running horse. For, we acquire knowledge and experience only by observing the qualities and movements of particular things. Though the growth of knowledge consists in generalising into abstract principles the actions and attributes of individual objects similar to each other, yet the images of these individual objects arise distinct in our mind by the law of association, so inseparably bound up with their actions and attributes that it is absolutely impossible for us to conceive of them as two independent sets. When we try to think of beauty, we invariably think of it as it exists in a beautiful person, or in a fine painting or in a fresh blown rose. When the thought of intelligence, or of virtue enters our mind, the image of an intelligent man, or of a loving friend, or of a charitable person appears in intimate union with it. The process of thought is such and such is the constitution of mind in every human being that he cannot hope to achieve his mental development otherwise than in this prescribed manner. In the words of John Stuart Mill: “The general propositions, whether called definitions, axioms, or laws of nature, which we lay down at the beginning of our reasonings, are merely abridged statements, in a kind of short hand, of the particular facts, which, as occasion arises, we either think we may proceed on as proved, or intent to assume.” He continues, “All inference is from particulars to particulars; General propostions are merely registers of such inferences already made, and short formulae for making more.”24 From this it must be apparent to you that the meaning of the abstract term ‘energy or force’ cannot be conceived of except as it is found either in mind or in matter. “How,” we may ask with Dr. James Ward, “can the bodies of abstract dynamics be conceived as merely geometrical figures moving according to rule, if they are collectively endowed with all the forces of nature; gravitation, light, heat, electricity, chemical attraction, etc? What are these if they are not the active properties of material bodies?”25 As the great scientist Clerk Maxwell has said, “that wherever magnetic force exists, there is matter,” 26, the theory of the materialistic monists who say that inasmuch as all mind and matter are reducible to a single form of energy, there must ultimately exist only energy or force, should be given up as a forgone conclusion.
Even granting it to be true that mind and matter in their ultimate form exist as mere energy, we are not precluded from making a correct estimate of its nature and constitution. When a visible and tangible substance changes into an invisible and intangible form, its existence is not easily ascertainable except  by its action on other bodies. For instance, so long as oxygen and hydrogen appear in their combined form as water, we can see and feel them; but when they are separated, they immediately change into a subtle gaseous form which we can neither see nor feel; but we can detect their existence by bringing a red-hot splinter near the mouth of the tube in which oxygen has been collected; when so brought the splinter at once bursts into  flame. 
But if you take the same splinter near the mouth of the other tube in which hydrogen is, it is not re-kindled. Instead of a red-hot piece of wood, if you bring a lighted candle to the mouth of this tube, the gas itself is lighted and it burns with a pale, blue flame. By such means we are enabled to apprehend the existence of oxygen, hydrogen and other gases, though to our naked eyes these seem to be an empty void. So far it is manifest that the existence and characteristics of different substances in their subtle state, can be ascertained only by their different modes of action upon other visible and tangible things Now I think it would be easy for us to extend the range of our mental vision either to a remote past or to a distant future in which this whole universe remained in or will dissolve into, a subtle form which might be best described only by the term ‘energy’ or ‘force.’ Still that energy, I think I am justified in saying, must be not a single undifferentiated unit existing quite independently of both matter and spirit, but simply a subtlest form of the two comprehending within its area all the manifold elements that have already come and have still to come to our knowledge. 
All that is found in the effect must, as a law of necessity, lie in the cause, but of course in a subtle and latent form. That is the tenet held by our Saint Meikandan. To obtain an accurate knowledge of a certain cause, you must proceed to study not the cause itself but its effects. The value of this procedure can best be illustrated by a golden saying of Lord Jesus. By their fruits shall ye know them and not by their roots. A good number of seeds different in kind and character are so similar in their shape and size that they defy detection even by practised eyes. But when they are sown in the ground, they grow into different varieties of plants and trees and yield fruits greatly varied in colour, size and shape, taste and smell. Only then are you able to say what sorts of plants and trees they were. Similarly when all transorm into a subtle seed-like state, we are justified in inferring that all the variations palpable in their solid, liquid and gaseous conditions must exist there in so finest a form transcending our conception that we can best describe them only by their action which a vague, indefinite and indistinct term as ‘energy’ or ‘force’ is best fitted to express. Thus interpreted in the light of Saiva Siddhanta, even the theory of the materialistic monists may be made to acquire a new and pregnant significance and harmonize with the fundamental principles of practical knowledge. 
Except on this interpretation, the theory of the materialistic monists, too, being inexplicable from the practical and scientific point of view and on that account quite arbitrary, must be left behind as useless to guide us to a right understanding of the facts of life and nature. 
But physiologists may, here, step in and affirm thus: ‘Without brain, mind is never seen to play its part independently; when the brain is in proper working order, when it is able to act upon the various stimuli received from outside, consciousness originates; if any slight injury occurs to it or if the strong influence of some intoxicating thing is brought to bear upon it, all consciousness vanishes; and is it not then quite clear that mind is simply a function of brain and nothing more, and with the destruction of this organ is destroyed irretrievably the mind also?’ In answer to this, I wish to call your attention to the momentous fact recently brought to light in some of the American hospitals, concerning certain cases of sudden deaths in which, after very careful and minute post mortem examinations of dead bodies, no cause for such quick extinction of life was discernible either in brain or any other vital organs of the body. The whole body and all its parts were in thorough good order and in perfectly workable condition; still there was no life in it. How do you account for such a strange phenomenon on a purely physiological principle? The vehicle was there in excellent order but the driver left it owing to some mysterious cause not within the reach of the physiologist’s ken.
But it may be asked why consciousness is affected when brain goes wrong. To this our St. Meikandan would answer by stating simply “Because the soul is set within this engine-like body.”27 By this compendious answer he means that the individual soul is not the maker of this complex machine, since he is plunged in ignorance, but it was made for him by a Supreme.  Being of perfect intelligence and given him so that he may attain knowledge by making a careful use of it, by preserving it, by paying close attention to the wonderful adjustments of all its parts and how all of them work together to produce results desired by him.28 If soul be the maker of it, he can set it right when it goes wrong, and remain unaffected by its disorder. But he is not so; his mind is eternally blinded by the darkness of an evil principle and for the very removal of this darkness and for illuminating his intellect, will and emotion, he stands in sore need of this marvellous mechanism. 
It is no wonder, then, that he becomes affected when the organism gets into disorder. This may be made very clear by our familiar example of a steam-engine and its driver. So long as a steam-engine is in a perfectly good condition, the driver can drive it as he chooses; even if any petty disorder happens to it, he can repair it if he be a capable hand to that extent, and make it run; but if it goes wrong to such an extent as lies beyond his capacity to set it right, he is, then, rendered powerless to handle it and the engine comes to a dead stop. In the same way, when your brain or any other vital organ goes out of order, your consciousness and all your activities are brought thereby to an utter standstill. But that does not go to prove that the soul is a mere meaningless void. This exposition of the relation of the soul to the body, as given by St. Meikandan, is echoed in the words of the great living French philosopher, Prof. Bergson who says in his excellent work, Mind-Energy, “The mind is undeniably attached to the brain, but from this it does not in the least follow that in the brain is pictured every detail of the mind, nor that the mind is a function of the brain. All that observation, experience, and consequently science, allows us to affirm is the existence of a certain relation between brain and mind.”29
This relation between mind and brain may be illustrated also by the familiar instance of a painter and his painting requisites. Our painter may be a man of fine discriminative sense, of strong and vivid imagination, and above all may possess great skill in drawing beautiful pictures corresponding exactly to his mental images; still he cannot produce them without the aid of pencil and paper or colours, brushes and canvas. All his mental power avails not to exhibit his skill externally without such aids, nor can that power create the aids out of itself. Equally is it impossible for the painting accessories themselves to produce the pictures or create the mind of the painter. Each has an independent existence of its own and each possesses properties and potencies peculiar to itself. Nevertheless the two must co-operate with each other, if a picture is to be produced. Even when the two thus co-operate, how diligent and thoughtful the artist is at his work and with what nice discrimination he makes use of his painting materials, are points that impress us much. We perceive that all his intelligent and thoughtful strivings aim at bending the materials to his will in order to produce an exact likeness of his mind’s picture.
Here it must be noted that the picture on the canvas is as real as the picture in the artist’s mind, that neither the one nor the other is a transformation of its opposite, and that what the painter’s invisible intelligence thus achieves with the aid of his colours and tools, these things themselves cannot achieve.
In the same way the mind uses the brain as an instrument of thought and so bends it to its will as to make it subservient to its own growth and expression. Neither is mind a transformation of the brain, nor the brain a transformation of the mind; nor can the one create the other as in the above instance; for the laws and natures of the two are ever distinct and in no known circumstance are the laws violated. No doubt the intimate, interpenetrative and eternal union of the two substances raises   difficulties insuperable to certain minds and renders the nature of the one indistinguishable from that of the other; still opportunities are not wanting in our experience to bring home to our mind the characteristic marks which differentiate the one from the other. The laws governing the nature and functions of the brain fall under the laws of matter, while those of the mind come invariably under the laws of immaterial principles. Wherever anything exerts itself in setting something else in motion, or in binding up its particles into certain definite masses, or in breaking them up again to pieces, it is mind that is at work there; in all such operations it is mind that restrains and releases the activities of matter, while matter, though it offers resistance up to a certain point, yields at last to the mandates of the mind.
The state of being invisible and intangible to our senses, is no more a reason for denying the existence of mind than it can be for denying the subtle states of matter. As has been already pointed out, not only the existence of invisible and intangible things but also their different characters are studied and ascertained only by noting their action and influence upon things that are visible.
The essential mark by which we distinguish between the two great classes of the objects of our thought is spontaneons motion. So far as our experience goes, we are quite sure that spontaneous motion is no property of matter. Nor do we perceive anything approaching to self-movement in any part of matter. If what is seen and experienced to be an invariable property of a part may safely be predicted of the whole, we shall not be wrong in saying that all matter is inert, that it is incapable of any self-movement. Whenever and wherever an apparent movement of a material body occurs, then and there we perceive either within it or close beside it a mind-principle first originating that movement in itself and then communicating it to the body that was lying still before. It is from this clear expression of its impulse in matter that we are assured of the existence and nature of an invisible mind. Finite and imperfect as is our experi ence, we cannot afford, even were we inclined, to ignore the fact which that experience repeatedly and invariably brings before our mind. 
For, all our knowledge consists not only in noting the frequent and invariable occurrences that take place in individual objects but in connecting them together by the help of memory and in deducing from them the law of such objects. Every fragment of pure matter, that is matter not susceptible of being impressed by a mind-principle, being always in an inert condition, we cannot be wrong in extending to the whole the application of what holds good of the component parts. To our empirical knowledge modern science too adds its corroborative proofs. The science of Geology shows us various specimens of stocks and stones dug out from the lowest strata of the earth in a condition which indicates that they never possessed even the faintest vestige of life, although their age is computed to be millions and billions of years. In the same way the science of Biology exhibits an infinite variety of structural forms which have once been the habitation of life but have long since become dead and have remained in that condition ever after. I believe the knowledge coming from these two sources must enable us to distinguish between the matter that is dead and the matter that lives and serves as the vehicle of life.
If there were no God, if matter alone had been the creator of life, if life were the result of certain peculiar self-adjustments of material particles taking place quite accidentally within the womb of matter itself, then the perpetual existence of vast quantities of matter lying lifeless for ages indefinite, receives no explanation whatever. In spite of the strenuous effort made by some so-called scientists to bridge over the wide gulf of difference that persists between the dead and the living portions of matter, that difference becomes the more pronounced the more our insight into its nature increases and the more the researches of modern science advance. It is, therefore, against all facts, reason and experience, to say that matter itself is instinct with a creative faculty and that life is but a result of its activity and not anything separate from it.  
Qualitatively the brain and other parts of our body are in no way different from the painting materials possessed by an artist. Both are parts of matter and both are used by the mind to give an outer expression to its inner ideas. Like the brush and colours of the painter, the brain too is a mere instrument of thought, though many degrees finer than they. You can weigh the brain as you can weigh the painter’s materials. You can even cut it into several parts as you can the other; and you can again put together the severed pieces of the brain and, if life has not quitted it, can make it live once more, just as a painter mixes his colours and produces a fine picture. The only difference between the two kinds of matter is that, while the picture produced by the artist remains lifeless all through, the brain of a living body throbs with life for a certain period in a way the mystery of which is inscrutable to man. Although this intimate union of the two is too mysterious to be known exactly, we are not left in uncertainty as regards their distinct characters. That life is not the result of brain function but the expression of a superphysical principle in the brain, is forced upon our mind, whenever we come across the corpse of a man whose brain was once instinct with life but is now dead. If, as the physiologist holds, the brain itself had been the generator of life, the question naturally suggests itself, why has it not then regenerated it in a dead body?
If it be argued that the cessation was due to physical exhaustion, just as the extinction of a lamp-light is due to its losing itself gradually in the course of its radiation, we may point out that such exhaustion of the brain is brought on not by a gradual expenditure of its own force but by a decrease in efficient blood-supply, as the light of a lamp goes out as soon as the supply of oil stops. Now both the brain and the blood being material substances, neither the brain can of itself secure the blood-supply, nor can the blood by itself reach the brain. Other causes, both internal and external, are indispensable to such physiological processes and when all these processes are carefully analysed and inquired into, they disclose within and behind them the presence of an intelligent mind as the fundamental cause which constitutes the main-spring of all their complex movements. 
It is no doubt true that blood is manufactured from food by the contact of inhaled air and circulated by the action of the heart; still it must not be forgotten that, in order to secure food, to assimilate and convert its essence into blood and send it up to the brain, the presence and activity of an intelligent agent is absolutely necessary. If it be asserted that all these too might be the actions of the brain itself, then the former question will recur; how can death, or complete cessation of activity befall such a vigilant organ as the brain? The physiological theory can therefore offer no solution whatever to this question, so long as the mind is held to be merely a function of the brain. Whilst, on the other hand, the metaphysical theory which posits within the brain an intelligent and immaterial mind-principle that can generate, combine and adjust all the complex life movements, readily offers an easy and satisfying solution to that vital question. When pressed by consistent reasoning grounded on the facts of life, the physiologist has in the last resort no other alternative than to admit the existence in the brain of a superphysical principle that communicates to it all its activities and thus renders it a living substance.
To prove further the unsoundness of the physiological theory, St. Meikandan has brought forward another argument of great importance which merits our most careful consideration. Even were we inclined to leave out of account the case of a dead body, in which the brain, owing to some mysterious cause, has ceased to perform its functions, we cannot so leave the case of a living body in which the brain occasionally becomes dead as it were, whilst life is still seated within. Such seemingly lifeless occasions St. Meikandan points out to be, in the experiences of sleep and rare trance conditions into which healthy living beings enter. So long as man, or any lower creature, is buried in deep sleep, the brain too is quite inactive, although it continues to be in perfect working order; but when he is awake it is also in full activity. These two entirely different states that alternate with each other do not so readily yield themselves to be explained away on the materialistic hypothesis of the physiologist as may be imagined; for if the brain itself be an active principle, it must be as ever active as is the magnet or steam; either attracting like the one or propelling like the other; and again, as in the case of the magnet and steam, the brain too must act in one uniform manner and not in any other way. 
But that is not what we find to be the case. On the contrary, very minute and intricate plans and infinite combinations of movements that are being formed in the brain every moment imply the presence in it of an intelligence which should be capable of bringing into play all such complex operations and should, therefore, be totally distinct in its character and constitution from the brain which, by being a mere material organ, is rendered powerless to exercise of itself any such function of thought. Unless there be in the sleeping and trance conditions a resting soul which has temporarily relinquished its hold on the brain, there can be no reason for our belief that life still exists there, even after the brain has ceased to act. Unless there be in the waking hours an animating self which wakens in the brain, or rather transmits to it, its own activities, how a mass of matter that has once become inactive, can resume its activity without  being actuated by another, must for ever remain an insoluble problem. As has been shown above, all matter being destitute of voluntary movement, the brain too which is simply a form of organic matter, can never pass from an active into an inactive state and vice versa, without an intermediary principle of mind to bring it about. Nay, our very existence would become a sheer impossibility, had there been no such intelligent self distinct from the two states and yet passing through them from one to the other in due and inverse order. 
In addition to this difficulty St. Meikandan points out another and still greater difficulty which presents itself in the phenomenon of consciousness and renders the physiological theory inadmissible. Eminent physiologists themselves are in a fix when they come to consider impartially the question of consciousness and its manifestation in the brain. While it is patent that the elements that enter into the structure and composition of the brain are purely physical, those that constitute consciousness have never been proved to be such; on the contrary, the two are always observed to be intrinsically opposed to each other. When flame radiates light, when water gives off vapour, when flowers emit fragrance, we know that the light, the vapour and the fragrance could be none other than the finer emanations of their respective substances; in other words, they are proved to be the same as the things themselves but with this difference: while the things that produce them are tangible, the emanations are intangible, inasmuch as the finer particles that constituted the things separate themselves from them and enter into that impalpable condition. 
Similarly can consciousness be said to be a finer emanation of the brain, and be nothing else but an intangible state of the minutest particles of the very same organ? No. For, from a careful study of the two phenomena we come to know that the nature of the one is so different from that of the other that it baffles all attempts to derive the one from the other or trace even a remote resemblance between the two. In the words of Prof. James the two are “heterogeneous natures altogether.”30 If consciousness and the brain had been really identical substances, so long as the brain exists, consciousness too must exist without undergoing any change in its manifestation just as a burning candle gives us light until it is wholly consumed in the process. Whereas the flow of consciousness is not so continuous but is frequently interrupted by intervals of mental darkness as in dreamless sleep and profound trance and comes to complete stop at death, even when the brain is whole in all   these different states.  
In fact, consciousness could be neither a finer emanation nor a specific function of the brain but must be the vital expression of the essence of the finite selves or monads in the language of Leibnitz, which take their seat in this mechanism of flesh and blood and propel it in accordance with their needs and requirements. Although it is true that a serious hurt caused to the brain deprives a man of his consciousness, yet it must not be forgotten that, in most cases, it is only a temporary suspension of its activity brought on by the breakdown of the mechanism. That conciousness is never destroyed by a disruption of the brain but exists there persisting in its work of making it serve its purpose, may be seen from the restoration after sometime of the inured part to its previous sound condition. This restorative function cannot be imagined to take place in a living organism unless there be a conscious self silently to effect it. Another noticeable feature in this restorative process is that, when the injured part of the brain is wrecked beyond scope of repair, the self seizes some other part near to it and so plies it that it ultimately assumes the function of the injured part. This fact relating to the assumption by one part of the brain of the function of another through the intervention of a conscious self, had long ago been brought to light by Dr.F.C.S. Schiller and we shall do well to quote here his very words. “If e.g., a man” he says, “loses consciousness as soon as his brain is injured, it is clearly as good an explanation to say the injury to the brain destroyed the mechanism by which the manifestation of consciousness was rendered possible, as to say that it destroyed the seat of consciousness. 
On the other hand, there are facts which the former theory suits far better. If. e.g., as sometimes happens, the man after a time more or less recovers the faculties of which the injury to his brain had deprived him, and that not in  consequence of a renewal of the injured part, but in consequence of the inhibited functions being performed by the vicarious action of other parts, the easiest explanation certainly is that after a time consciousness constitutes the remaining parts into a mechanism capable of acting as a substitute for the lost parts”31. Between this view of an eminent modern thinker and the argument put forward by St. Meikandan to prove the exact relation subsisting between the brain and consciousness, how close is the agreement!
Now as a last point in our discussion of this important subject, we would pick out one more argument from those set forth by Meikandan in his treatise Sivajnanabodham and would bring this topic to a close. The all-important faculty of memory which makes indivudual life what it has come to be, brings before our mind another difficulty that cannot be explained a way on the physiological theory of the materialists. That the brain is made up of cells, that it loses old cells every moment and gets newer ones in their stead, are facts quite familiar to all physiologists. If, according to them, memory be the simple result of a certain spontaneous disposition of brain-cells, then the old contents of memory must perish every instant that the old brain-cells perish and newer details must accumulate in proportion to the entry of newer cells, these again in their turn to be driven out to make room for the subsequent influx of still newer items, and so on ad infinitum, and we should have in consequence no memory at all, no recollection of our own past experiences, nay even of the very identity of our own past and present selves. 
Should this theory of the physiologists be true, fortunately it is not so, all human existence must end in utter wreck and ruin. In spite of the unwarrantable assertion of such materialists, our memory persists all through the infinite changes which the brain-cells undergo, and maintains its existence independently of their birth and death. That none of the events that once happened within the range of our experience could ever be forgotten, is proved beyond doubt by cases recorded of hypnotic subjects in the great book of Myers, by a reference to which one can easily know with what marvellous accuracy the details of a past occurrence, supposed to have been long ago forgotten by the waking brain, are called up when the subject is in profound hypnotic sleep, his brain and all reasoning faculties being then set at complete rest.
Besides this distinct quality of memory, its quantity too, if quantity we may call its capacity, presents another insuperable difficulty to an admission of the physiological theory. From the time of our childhood when we began first to exercise our memory we have been storing it up with an infinite multitude of ideas which exceeds our power of computation and which, if actually had been the functions of our constantly accumulating brain-cells, must also have a brain correspondingly increasing in size. But, as a matter of fact, such is not the case, inasmuch as the development of our brain is not proportionate to the development of our memory and all of us, whether great in memory or not whether learned or unlearned, have brains almost equal in size, although in point of quality there may be much difference between one brain and another. This disproportionateness of the brain to the limitless growth of memory makes it quite clear that memory could be neither a function of the brain nor a mere material element increasing in size concomitantly to the growth of the brain, but must be a principle immaterial since it occupies no space, independent since it depends not on brain as in hypnotic subjects, and spiritual since it is the very essence of individual selves. 
Dr. Schiller truly observes: “On a materialist hypothesis the memory of a certain arrangement of certain particles of brain tissue, and in the case of complex facts, the memory would evidently require a very complex system of particles. Now as the contents of the brain are limited, it is clear that there can only be a limited number of facts remembered. It would be physically impossible that the brain could be charged with memories beyond a certain point. And if we consider the number of impressions and ideas which daily enter into our consciousness, it is clear that even in youth the brain must soon reach the saturation point of memory, and that the struggle for existence in our memory must be very severe. If therefore we receive unexpected proofs of the survival in memory of the facts most unlikely to be remembered, we have evidently reached a phenomenon which it is exceedingly difficult for materialism to explain.”32 So then, memory, existing only as a spiritual faculty of souls, and not as any other belonging to the physical brain, is itself sufficient conclusively to prove the falsity of the physiological theory and establish that mind and brain are two distinct principles, though their existence on this plane is coeval and most intimate up to a certain point of time.
These inquiries brief and humble as they are, being conducted in strict conformity with the teachings of St. Meikandan, into the conditions and existence of life-struggles, disclose to us these facts; individual soul is an eternal unit of intelligence which exists in its primitive state enshrouded by a dark and evil principle called malam, for the removal of which and for the enlightenment of the soul’s understanding various organisms and environments are being constantly moulded out from an ever-existing material cause called maya. Every individual soul dwelling in every body is not only distinct from that body but is also eternally different from every other ego. So, we have, instead of one, a numberless multitude of souls each shaping its destiny according to the tendencies of its mind and unfoldment of understanding.
Having obtained these results, I now pass on to give a succinct account of the efficient cause of this creating, for without which this brief sketch of Saiva Siddhanta would be incomplete. As already pointed out, all the individual souls, being primarily immersed in ignorance, cannot, for the sake of setting themselves free from its influence create for themselves this body and all its surroundings. Nor can maya the original and material cause of these organisms and worlds originate them from itself, since it is devoid of intelligence and therefore of all voluntary movements. As has been proved by Prof. Bergson that all original movements must have proceeded solely from an intelligent cause, to set maya in motion and bring into being these wonderful adjustments of microcosm and macrocosm for the benefit of all individual souls, the existence of Supreme Being of an ever-resplendent intelligence naturally follows as an inevitable consequence. St. Meikandan argues that this Supreme Being could be neither a material nor an instrumental cause but must solely be an efficient cause. To illustrate this he takes a potter and his pots. 
In the process of making pots, he requires a lump of fine clay as the material cause which is always inseparable from the pots produced out of it; he then uses a spinning wheel and a rod and moves them as the instrumental cause; while he himself reamins all the time as an efficient cause,     quite distinct from the other two. In like manner God stands as an efficient cause, maya as the material cause and God’s will power and intelligence as instrumental cause, when the creation proceeds as the result of the combination of all these three causes. But, the class of thinkers who exult in the flight of their own imagination, can never bring themselves to concede any but phenomenal existence to Maya the material cause of the world. Their chief contention is as follows; to believe in the reality of an objective world is as unreasonable as it is to believe in that of the dream-world; in dreams we do receive impressions and we do send responses as vividly as in our waking state; difference between the two experiences being thus only in name, ascribing reality to the one while denying it to the other is like saying things inconsistent in one and the same breath; and as what one experiences in the dream-world dissolves into nothing no sooner than that person wakes up, so also all experiences of the waking life may disappear into a mere void no sooner than a glorious soul realizes its self-sufficiency and rends asunder the veil of deception that hid its mental vision.
Now this view of the idealists has so stealthily entered into almost every system of philosophy widely different in other respects, that it excites our surprise to detect its presence even in the philosophy of Dr. F.C.S.Schiller whose mode of thought appears to be in many important points in striking harmony with that of St. Meikandan. For Dr. Schiller says in one place that “the cosmos of our experience is a stress or inter-action between God and ourselves.”33 and in another place, likening our present life to dream-life he affirms that “while it lasts, therefore, a dream has all the characteristics of reality. And so with our present life.34 Still, he has not shown how from bare interaction which can only be relational operations of God’s and Soul’s intellect, a principle possessing the objective quality of dead matter can ever arise. If matter which is under the limitations of space and time can be produced from Divine intellect which from its nature must be beyond them, then both should be essentially identical in substance, and speaking of them differently will turn out to be a contradiction in terms. Yet, it is curous that no one has dwelt upon the distinction between matter and consciousness more emphatically than Dr. Schiller himself35. In spite of that, the spell cast on him by the illusion theory of the Idealists had been so powerful as to make him even give up his own strong position and seek shelter in the airy castle built by the dreaming idealists.    
Now, mere interaction between God and Soul, being purely an intellectual activity, cannot of itself constitute the basic principle of the world which is composed of lifeless matter. Nor can it be taken to create the world out of nothingness, for no known form of energy, however potent, is seen to produce anything out of nothing. Hence, St. Meikandan lays it down as an immutable law that “From sheer emptiness no phenomenon of any real kind can take its rise.”36 But Schiller contradicts this by likening our present-life to a dream. Although in the preceding sections of this essay we have sufficienty discussed the illusion-theory and shown its incorrectness, the new aspect which it has assumed in Dr. Schiller’s philosophy renders it necessary to re-examine it in the light shed by St. Meikandan’s argument.
In the first place we have to consider whether it is legitimate to hold that dream-life is unreal. Before coming to a definite conclusion about this, we must inquire how we come by such an exeprience as dream-life. It is plain to all that dream-life is not the one with which our life on this earth at first begins. We have no proof to affirm that the new born child has dreams; nor can we say that children can dream until and ofter some months elapse since they saw the light of the day, during which time they acquire little by little a knowledge of their surrounding objects. All the infinite variety of external things which we had been taking cognizance of in our childhood gradually became represented within our mind in the form of mental images. But these images are only our subsequent mental products and not our original possessions. What we brought with us as infants did not amount to more than a few vital activities such as the feelings of hunger and thirst, crying, seeing and the moving of limbs and an intellectual faculty which, though latent, is nevertheless endowed with an ability to form mental images in exact correspondence to outward objects. 
With these we grew and with their help we stored up our mind with mental images and in this way we acquired knowledge both of the inner world and the outer. But such growth and expression of our mental faculties could not have taken place, if we were not fitted up with a body of the five marvellous sense-organs which serve to bring our mind into an active contact with the external world. Independently of this body and the world surrounding it, no soul exists, nor from its imagination does it manufacture all these multifarious phenomena in the same way as it does in dreams. In point of fact all mental images that we form, are formed in correspondence to the external world by virtue of our being in active contact with it. If we might suppose that a person totally indifferent to the impressions and solicitations of nature could exist somewhere, I ask who must be the loser thereby? Undoubtedly it must be he that was indulging in such supreme callousness of mind and not nature which readily ministers to all who appeal to her for her ministrations. The fact should, therefore, be pressed against the misconception that the world must lose its reality and become null and void, simply because a fugitive soul drunk with self-deception pays no heed to its impressions and leaves it going away whither it knows not. The indisputable laws of indestructibility of matter and conservation of energy must for ever stand for the eternal reality of the world.
Further, he who cannot understand the world, cannot understand his very self. If it be argued that, for him who is not conscious of the world, the world cannot exist, we may equally argue that for him who is not conscious of his own self, his self too cannot exist. To base an argument for the existence or non-existence of the world, on our being either conscious or unconscious of it, would lead to great confusion and self-immolation of thought.   
Legitimate reasoning would, therefore, necessarily require three real principles for the production of any mental image. These three must be: a subjective mind endowed with the faculties of understanding, will and emotion; an objective world which calls these faculties into play; and a material organism which mediates between the two by transmitting the impressions of the latter to the former and returning the responses of the former to the latter. In the combination of these three principles the mind of a child unfolds and expands in proportion as it introduces into itself every new idea and every new mental image. Until she is able to distinguish betwen herself and her body, between her body and her surroundings, the child is naturally powerless to know that she is a self, that she possesses a body and that she lives in a world already made for her. This truth has been pointed out so well by Prof. Robert Adamson that we can do no better than quote his very words here: “It is true that self-consciousness implies a contradistinction from nature, that mind only knows itself in knowing nature that is distinct from itself. 
But the very implication of this truth is that neither mind nor nature as thus contrasted in consciousness is possessed of independent being, that mind knows nature only in so far as it is a part of nature, and that its knowledge of nature, its apprehension of fact other than itself, is the living link which binds it to nature and to the sum-total of reality. Ideas, as one may put it, are not so much in mind as of mind; they are the   actual modes of our participation in the reality of which external nature is a part.”37 Hence we are inevitably led to the conclusion that all the three distinct principles constitute a real whole, of which each being a part and parcel, one could be no more real than the other, and that, for the development of thought and imagination of the soul, each must necessarily co-operate with every other. We cannot, therefore, say that for the new-born child the world could not exist simply because her mind was inoperative then.
If ignorance alone reigned supreme allowing no room even for a single ray of intelligence to enter into our life, then there might be a sense in saying that the world was unreal and did not exist. Even then it would be more correct to say that there was no means of ascertaining whether or not the world existed. Since the very intelligence engaged in ascertaining either of the two, must, according to the dream-theory, be included in the general illusion, both the knower and the known along with the means of knowing, should be involved in utter null and void. But fortunately the theory based on the analogy of dreams does not, in the least, affect facts; for the facts of life have so stern and solid a reality that theories of such flimsy character dash against them simply in vain.
After all, what are dreams? Are they mere nothingness? No, would say St. Meikandan; for he positively holds, as has just been shown, that from mere nothingness no phenomenon  of any kind can arise. According to him a new-born child whose mind is a clean blank, can have no dreams whatever. But as days roll by, external impressions repeatedly impinge on the senses of the child, through them touch her latent faculties and rouse them so as to respond to those impressions. At the beginning the child takes only a very faint notice of sense-impressions; the sense of touch being the first to come into play and that of sight next.38 Only after she has learnt to exercise her sense of sight, does she acquire the power to from mental images. Even after this, the child in her early years is unable to distinguish real objects from her mental representations of them, and for many years confuses the two. 
This nature of the human mind in childhood, a passage from Prof. Sully’s Studies will make quite clear to us. “I believe,” he says “that this same tendency to take art representations for realities re-appears in children’s mental attitude towards stories. A story by its narrative form seems to tell of real events, and children, as we all know, are wont to believe tenaciously that their stories are true. I think I have observed a disposition in imaginative children to go beyond this, and to give present actuality to the scenes and events described. And this is little to be wondered at when one remembers that even grown up people, familiar with the devices of art-imitation, tend now and again to fall into this confusion.”39 From this confusion the grown-up child frees her mind only after putting her faculties to continual trials and tests for months and years together. Only when she reaches the intellectual stage, does she obtain a clear comprehension of the two sets of facts and their character, so that the one becomes in her mind unmistakably marked off from the other and no difficulty is felt afterwards in conceiving that the outer objects from the originals of which her ideas are mere copies. If, owing to insufficient attention, some of her ideas become either obscure or obliterated from her memory, she recalls them simply by the help of external things and events with which they remained in close association and thus succeeds in reviving them in her memory. 
From such common experiences it is obvious that all the multifarious ideas which the mind of man has formed from the time of his infancy could be nothing else but the reflections of external things as it were. No idea-not even such abstract ones as of virtue, vice, pleasure, pain and so forth a conception of which is facilitated by the use of language, can be shown to possess an existence in the mind independently of all relation to the outer world. In fact what we call an adult mind is nothing but a repository of ideas or ideal images, on the quality and quantity of which the superior or inferior nature of a person depends. Only those human beings whose mind is thus enriched by a variety of ideas but not their new-born offspring whose mind is a clean blank, can be said to have dreams either in the waking or in the sleeping state.
Even when a man appears to be wide-awake, there are moments in which his mind becomes so completely absorbed in his own thoughts that for the time being he forgets his surrounding and lives as it were in a dream-world. And it may be his desire, as in the case of some lazy persons, to live uninterruptedly in such a world, but the pressure brought to bear upon his mind by his bodily needs, calls his attention off from it and directs it to the stern realities of waking life. From such day dreams, dreams of night differ but little, for in the two it is the ideas that are so active, that take so complete a possession of the human mind. The only difference observable between the  two is that, while in night-dreams our mental images attain to great clearness and vividness, those in day-dreams are neither so clear nor so vivid. 
The cause of this appears to be that, in sleep, the objective or reasoning part of our mind relaxes its hold on our thoughts and lets them have unchecked play under the influence of the emotional part, whereas in wakefulness the reasoning faculty is active by being in touch with the material world and by holding our thoughts under its control and allowing them to move only so far as is conformable to the activities of other beings like ourselves. As regards the distinctive character of the two psychic conditions, Prof. Sully’s careful observations are worth quoting here in his own beautiful words: “To say that in sleep the mind is given over to its own imaginings, is to say that the mental life in these circumstances will reflect the individual temperatment and mental history. For the play of imagination at any time follows the lines our past experience more closely than would at first appear, and being coloured with emotion, will reflect the predominant emotional impulses of the individual mind... When asleep the voluntary guidance of attention ceases; its direction is to a large extent determined by the contents of the mind at the moment. And thus, in sleep, just as in the condition of reverie or day-dreaming, there is an abandonment of the fancy to its own wild ways.”40 “In our waking states these innumerable paths of association are practically closed by the supreme energy of the coherent groups of impressions furnished us from the world without through our organs of sense, and also by the volitional control of internal thought in obedience to the pressure of practical needs and desires.”41 Apart from this difference which consists in the presence of the will-control in the one and the absence of it in the other, the waking and the sleeping conditions of our life are the same, in so far as the inner world of ideas is a product formed in exact correspondence with the outer world of matter.
After having inquired into every notable aspect of the question relating to the waking and the dreaming conditions of life. Prof. Sully concludes the subjects by saying “For these reasons dreams may properly be classed with the illusions of normal or healthy life, rather than with those of disease.”42 It  should be borne in mind that Prof. Sully does not use the term ‘illusion’ either in the popular or in the metaphysical sense of a deceptive appearance having no foundation in reality; but he draws a clear line of distinction between illusion and actuality by taking the first to mean “deviation of representation from fact.” He says further that “this is due in part to limitations and defects in the intellectual mechanism itself, such as the imperfections of the activities of attention, discrimination, and comparison, in relation to what is present.”43 From this clear and definite statement of a great authority on the science of Psychology, it must be plain to every thinking mind that dreams could be no mere rootless fictions of fancy but must be the result of the uncontrolled play of mental images, and twisted repreentations of actual facts. 
No one doubts the truth of the external realities being the basis of our internal thoughts; although it is only the idealists that introduce a great confusion into philosophy by assuming the thought-world alone as real and the physical unreal. Unless the human mind be set to think on a subject coherently, it is naturally thrown out of balance and runs haphazard as much in dreaming as in waking. One idea brings in its wake another with which it was slenderly connected, and this goes on in such quick succession that, unless some strong stimulus comes either from within or from without, our mind is easily carried away by the stream of such ideas quite unawares. 
While this is common to the two states, why take the dreaming state alone as unreal and the waking real? As long as the objective mind is quiescent leaving off its work of setting our ideas in order and orderly sequence, our self must be duped by the chaotic and disorderly play of thoughts brought on either by the activity of emotions or by indolence, so that the dreaming state does not in this respect vary much from the waking. And so long as this incoherent, distorted and fanciful display of mental images lasts, there can arise no actual experience, no true knowledge of facts, the knowledge even of one’s own self. Had not man been under the imperious call of physical needs, it is certain that he would always live in his chaotic mental world, whether awake or asleep and there can be no what we call progressive human experience, or human knowledge. When physical needs are left out of all account, it is meaningless to make any difference between the dreaming state and the waking, for there is no actual difference between the mental life in the one and the mental life in the other.
When you look carefully into the matter, the truth will manifest itself that real human experience, and real human knowledge begins only when a vital and logical connection is established between the inner world of mind and outer world of matter. Prof. James has well observed: “Between the coercions of the sensible order and those of the ideal order, our mind is thus wedged tightly. Our ideas must agree with realities concrete or abstract, be they facts or be they principles, under penalty of endless inconsistency and frustration.”44 Still this vital connection takes place only when the mind is wide awake, whereas in sleep that connection becomes broken temporarily. We attribute unreality to dreams, simply because what we experience in the dream of one night does not connect itself with what we experience in that of another night. For the dream experience occurs not only entirely disconnected with the experience of the outer world but also with its own in succeeding nights and lies completely shut up within the repeatedly isolated and unconnected domain of imagined ideas; while the experience in the waking state moves every day continuously in close connection with the outer world which constitutes its infallible corrective whenever it goes wrong. Our mental experience would be nothing if it were not vitally related to the experience of other animate beings and to the inanimate objects of sense. Take away this intimate relation, and you can find little difference between the waking state and the dreaming. A raving man is no better than a dreaming one who lives in his own mental world. It must, therefore, be obvious that drawing analogy between our normal experience of the outer world and dreaming experience of the inner world, for the sake of proving the former to be unreal, is quite unjustifiable and is against the whole experience of mankind. 
Here I must caution the reader against supposing all dreams to be a disconnected play of thoughts, a mere chaotic jumble of ideas, or a fantastic show of distorted images of mind. Under the influence of certain intensely spiritual feelings some persons are capable of perceiving in their dreams connected pictures of incidents that occurred in the past, or are occurring in the present, or are going to occur in the future. Into the truth and correctness of such exceptional dream-perceptions, talented men like Myers, Gurney and Lodge have carried their investigations with a patience and assiduity that astonish the world by their labour employed on such untilled but immensely fruitful ground. For an authentic record of such real dreams, I might  refer the reader to the useful book on ‘Dreams and Ghosts’ by Mr. Andrew Lang. Still such dreams are rare and exceptional cases and so they do no affect our view about dreams which are generally chaotic, which, therefore, do not produce a connected and wholesome experience like that which we have during the active waking life, and which, for that reason, must never be confounded with the latter under the pretence of analogical argument. So far I have made it plain that, to take matter as a fictitious appearance which arises as a result from the interaction between the human and Divine minds, to compare its manifestation to our dreams, as has been done by Dr. Schiller and the neo-Vedantists, is more like ascribing horns to a horse and attempting to take accurate measurements of their length and breadth. 
Therefore our St. Meikandan not only repudiates the very idea of conceiving Maya as illusive but insists strongly on its being the real material cause of the universe and compared it to a lump of clay in the hands of a potter who makes different kinds of earthenwares out of it. As potter moulds the clay into several earthen vessels, so too God creates the world out of Maya,- not of course standing outside Maya but staying within it and producing them by means of his sheer will-power. The analogy of potter must not be stretched too far, since it is taken only as an illustrative example to bring home to our mind how the creative principle is essentially distinct from the material cause and how it operates upon it in the creative act.
It must also be noted that St. Meikandan is very careful, here, in distinguishing between the working method of a known efficient cause and that of the unknown, in this way. The known efficient cause, potter, stands aloof from the clay and makes pots from it with the aid of his instruments; while God does not so stand away from matter and mind, but remains in intimate union with them within and without. He is immanent and omnipresent in all. Though He thus exists, yet is He distinct from them by virtue of His innate and pristine qualities. While the power and intelligence of individual sould are finite, those of  His are infinite. While they are subject to births and deaths, misery and happiness, He remains forever untouched by them. He sheds His grace and love on each and all souls and uplifts and sets them all in the realm of his ineffable light and love. He  renders them all kinds of help without expecting anything from them in return, except their love and devotion. What can man do to Him in return for all that He did and doeth, without his asking? What is there to be given to a giver of inestimable gifts, who is the richest and the most perfect of all, by a poor and imperfect soul such as man is, except his grateful heart and his humble self? This is the highest, the noblest and most ideal conception of God, the efficient cause of the universe, as expressed by St. Meikandan in his great work ‘The Sivajnanabodham’, the final authority on the religion and philosophy of Saiva Siddhanta.
Except on this pragmatic and pluralistic conception of God, Mind and Matter, no progress of human thought, no attainment of happiness is possible, and no success of all scientific labours, of religious and philosophical studies can be achieved, as has been wisely pointed out by Prof. William James in his scholarly work on religion. ‘Philosophic theism,” he says, “has always shown a tendency to become pantheistic and monistic, and to consider the world as one unit of absolute fact; and this has been at variance with popular or practical theism, which latter has ever been more or less frankly pluralistic, not to say polytheistic, and shown itself perfectly well satisfied  with a universe composed of many original principles, provided we be only allowed to believe that the divine principle remains supreme, and that the others are subordinate. 
In this latter case God is not necessarily responsible for the existence of evil. He would only be responsible if it were not finally overcome. But on the monistic or pantheistic view, evil, everything else, must have its foundation in God; and the difficulty is to see how this  can possibly be the case if God be absolutely good. This difficulty faces us in every form of philosophy in which the world appears as one flawless unit of fact. Such a unit is an Individual, and in it the worst parts must be as esssential as the best, must be as necessary to make the individual what he is; since if any part whatever in an individual were to vanish or alter, it would no longer be that individual at all. The philosophy of absolute idealism, so vigorously represented both in Scotland and America to-day, has to struggle with this difficulty, quite as much as scholastic theism struggled in its time; and although it be premature to say that there is no speculative issue whatever from the puzzle, it is perfectly fair to say that there is no clear or easy issue, and that the only obvious escape from paradox here is to cut loose from the monistic assumption altogether, and to allow the world to have existed from its origin in pluralistic form, as an aggregate or collection of higher and lower things and principles, rather than an absolutely unitary fact. For then  evil would not need to be essential; it might be and may always have been, and independent portion that had no rational or absolute right to live with the rest, and which we might conceivably hope to get rid of at last.” (The Varieties, pp.131, 132.)
As a nugget of pure gold contains nothing but particles of pure gold, so do these memorable words of Prof. William James contain only solid and substantial thoughts which furnish the true key to the solution of the most intricate and mysterious problems of life and life’s existence on this material plane. How this profound thinker came to apply the same principles of criticism to the momentous and ultimate questions of Philosophy and Religion as had been done by our St. Meikandan some six centuries ago, is a great wonder to me. I need hardly say that all those who have an earnest desire to acquire a correct knowledge of human life and its destiny, would be greatly profited by making a comparative study of both Meikandan’s and William James’s works.     
Footnotes
1.  	The Varieties of Religious Experience, page 456.
2.  	The Varieties of Religious Experience, pp.444,445.
3.  	The Varieties of Religious Experience” p.456.
4.  	Naturalism and Agnosticism, Vol.1. page.80.
5.  	Ibid.	
6.  	An Examination of Sir W. Hamilton’s Philosophy page.45.
7.  	Sivajnanabodham, 4th Sutra, 2nd Adhikarana.
8.  	Outlines of Psychology. p.8.
9.  	The Principles of Psychology, Vol.1. pp.6&7
10. 	The Principles of Psychology, Vol.1. pp.6&7
11.  	Fragments of Science, Vol,2, page,299.
12.  	Life and Matter, pp.136-137. 	
13.	 Ibid, p.149
14.  	Ibid, p.197
15.  	Page, 185.
16. 	Natural Law in the Spiritual World, p.69.
17. 	Ibid, p.71.
18.  	Naturalism and Agnosticism, p.28.
19.  	Axioms as Postulates, in Personal idealism, 	p.107.
20. 	Human Personality, vol.1,p,17.
21.	Compare what Dr. F.C.S. Schiller says in his Riddles of the Sphinx, p.866. “Evil and imperfection is that which is ever vanishing away, It is impermanent itself and the cause of impermanence in the imperfect, the lawless and acosmic factor, which must be continually transcended and ultimately eliminated in the process towards perfect Being.”
22. 	Formal Logic, pp 56,57. Dr. Schiller expounded the same fact long ago in his Riddles of the Sphinx, p.358 thus: “In the interpretation, therefore, of our world pluralism is supreme; it is the only possible and relevant answer to the ultimate question of ontology. It is only by asserting existences to be ultimately many that we can satisfy the demands either of the Real or of the Ideal. And it is a mere prejudice to suppose that there is any intrinsic difflculty in the ultimate existence of many individuals; for the conception of ultimate existence is no more difficult in the case of many than of one.” 
23.  Life’s Basis and life’s Ideal, p.21
24. 	Mill’s Logic P.120
25.  Naturalism and Agnosticism, p.60  
26.  Ibid, p.128.
27. 	Sivajnanabodham, 3rd Sutra. 
28. 	Compare Prof. L.T. Hobhouse’s statement in Mind in Evolution. p.14. 
29.	Mind-Energy, p.36.
30. 	Human Immortality, p.45.
31.	Riddles of the Sphinx. 2nd edition, p.296.
32	Riddles of the Sphinx, 2nd edition, pp.296,297.
33.	Riddles of the Sphinx, 2nd edition, p.279.
34. 	Ibid, p.285, 
35. 	Ibid, p.207.
36. 	Sivajnanabodha, 1st Sutra.
37. 	The Development of Modern Philosophy, Vol. II, pp.17,18.
38.	See Prof. Sully’s ‘Studies in Childhood,’ pp. 400-401.
39.	Studies in Childhood, p.314.
40. 	Illusions’ by Prof. James Sully, p.137.
41.	‘Illusions’ by Prof. James Sully, p.158.
42.	Ibid, p.183.
43.	Ibid, p.332.
44.  Pragmatism, p.211.

SCHOLARS’ VIEWS ON SAIVA SIDDHANTA
“Sa vism is the most ancient living faith in the world.”
- Sir John Marshall.
“Saiva Siddhanta philosophy is the choicest product of the Dravidian intellect. Saiva Siddhanta is the most elaborate, influential and undoubtedly the most intrinsically valuable of all the religions of India.” 
- Dr. G. U. Pope.
“Saiva Siddhanta may be ranked among the perfect and cleverest system of human thought”
- Dr. Kamil Zvelebil.
“Those who have studies the (Saiva Siddhanta) system, unanimously agree that this eulogy is not a whit too enthusiastic of free worded.”
- Rev. Goodwill.
“There is no school of thought and no system of faith or worship that comes to us with anything like the claims of Saiva Siddhanta. The system possesses the merits of great antiquity.
“As a system of religious thought, as an expression of faith and life, the Saiva Siddhanta is by far the best that South India possesses. Indeed, it would not be rash to include the whole of India and to maintain that judged by its intrinsic merits, the Saiva Siddhanta represents the highwatermark of Indian thought and Indian life, apart, of course, from the influence of the christian evangel.”
- Rev. W. H. Goudie.
“Of the many systems into which the Saivites stream of Vedanta teaching has spread out, the Saiva Siddhanta possesses by far the richest literature and holds the greatest place in the life of South India”
- J.N. Farquhar.
“The most courageous attempt to transcend his bondage  is that of the Saiva Siddhanta system, a system which for that reason we may pronounce the noblest among Indian Theisms.
“A system which perhaps from the theistic point of view is the most valuable of all that have sprung up upon the Indian soil.”
-Rev. Nicol Macnicol, M.A., LITT.D.,
“In no literature with which I am acquainted has the individual religious life-its struggles, dejections, its hopes and fears, its confidence and its triumph-receives a delineation more frank and more profound.”
-Sir Charles Eliot.
“The Saiva Siddhanta Philosophy of South India is one of the classical products of the Tamil mind. Not only so, but the system, in keeping with the claim inherent in the name, is one of the finest systems of Hindu thought and life.”
- Rev. Dr. J. H. Piet.
“The superiority of the Siddhanta is thus established through its consideration of categories not known to other systems. The Samkhya, for instance, recognizes only twenty-four categories; the Yoga recognizes practically the same number, though it postulates the Lord in addition to them. The Pancharatra and other Agamas, it is contended, do not recognize any more, while the Siddhanta alone explains all the thirty-six categories, by the full knowledge of which, one may attain union with Siva, i.e., final release.”
-Prof. S.S. Suryanarayana Sastri.

CHAPTER I
RUDRA IN THE RIG VEDA
As a pronounced theist, I purpose to speak from the theistic point of view of the conception of God as Rudra, formed in the minds of the ancient civilized Hindus in India. I take the Being represented by the term ‘Rudra’ to be indentical in character with that indicated by ‘Siva’. Millions of people from cape Comorin to the Himalayas pay their homage every day to this deity and there are all over India - especially in the south, many huge, magnificent and beautifully constructed temples dedicated to him. Next in importance comes the worship of Vishnu who too claims many equally large temples though they are not so numerous as those of Siva. Leaving aside several minor deities worshipped either as household gods and goddesses within or as village gods and goddesses without, the Hindu religion may, to all intents and purposes, be divided between the followers of Siva and those of Vishnu. If you take the word ‘Hinduism’ to mean a theistic religion, i.e., a religion which believes in the existence of an all-powerful and all-wise. Being not unknowable and inaccessible to man but gracious and personal living through and through in sympathetic relation to all that have life, then you cannot include in it any religion except these two creeds; others; Buddhism, Jainism and Mayavada being atheistic though ethical and metaphysical in character.
Now, let met turn to the oldest literary records both in Sanscrit and in Tamil in order to determine the intrinsic nature and function of Rudra from the descriptions given of him in them. For a fulness of account Sanscrit works stand pre-eminent, as almost all the Tamil works pertaining to religion and philosophy were irretrievably lost in the Lemurian floods that swallowed up the original home of the Tamils. Yet enough of Tamil remains, a few literary poems and an entire work of rare excellence called the ‘Tholkappiam’ which go back to a period when the Rig - Vedic hymns of Rudra were most probably just beginning to be composed and which, by presenting to us a clear picture of his person, enable us to know the earliest conception formed of God as Rudra.
In the Rig-Veda. Rudra is spoken of as the terrible fire;1 He is appealed to as the lord of hymns, the lord of Sacrifices and as one who keeps healing medicines; He is brilliant as the sun, refulgent     as bright gold, He is the best of all gods and most bountiful;2 He is excellently wise, most bountiful and strong;3 He who is strong and He the lord of heroes, has braided hair and is invoked to bring prosperity to the two-footed and four-footed creatures that all might be well-fed and healthy; He with the braided hair is called the boar of the sky and described as having a dazzling form glowing red. He is the father of the Maruts. He is immortal but bestows on all the food of mortals;2 in glory he is the most eminent of all beings, the mightiest of the mighty;3 He is the greatest physician of physicians;4 He is gracious and easily invoked;5 Divine power can never depart from him who is the supremed lord of this world;6 There is nothing mightier than him;7 He fulfils the aims and objects of rites and sacrificies;8 He is the father of Maruts and his consort Prisni is their mother;9 He their young and energetic father and his consort Prisni their mother bring fortunate days to the Maruts;10 in more than one place. He is identified with Agni and is praised to have burnt the three castles;11 His consort is called not only by the names Prisni, and Aditi but also by the name Soma, and He is, therefore, frequently addressed by the name Soma-Rudra (vi.74,1,2,3 and 4). This Divine mother is in many places called Aditi. And Rudra too is called by several names such as Bhaga, Pushan, Brahmanaspati and Siva; He is said to have a strong bow and swift arrows; He is the self-dependent and wise God and the conqueror whom none can conquer; through his power. He perceives all beings on the earth, through His high imperial sway He bends His looks upon the beings in heaven;12 He the long-haired Being sustains fire, water and the two worlds; He is all sky to look upon; He is this light; He the Muniassociated in the beneficent work of every God, is said to fly through the air looking upon all forms;13 He is also stated to have drunk poison along with Rudra.14
These notable references to Rudra I picked up only from the Rig - Veda in the order in which they occur from its first book to its last. But, for the sake of our argument, all the scattered epithets applied to him in the above references may be classified under three categories, one relating to his self, the other to his form and the third to his functions. He is said to possess excellent wisdom and boundless knowledge, unlimited grace and bountifulness, almightiness, fierceness eternal youth, immortality and self-dependence.    
His form is constituted of pure and resplendent light the colour of which is either red or golden; He has braided hair and long, loose locks; He holds in his hands a strong bow and swift arrows; He remains in an inseparable union with a female principle which is variously called Prisni, Aditi and Soma. The word ‘Soma’ means with ‘Uma’15; hence ‘Soma Rudra” means ‘ Rudra who dwells with Uma’.
Being the wisest, the mightiest and the best of all gods. He with Prisni creates the universe, sustains all - the two footed and four - footed creatures, by bestowing on them food, prosperity and healing medicines, and at length destroys them all. He hears the songs and prayers of his devotees and is easy of access to them. He it is that presides as the chief deity over all kinds of sacrifies and fulfills most bountifully the aims and objects of the sacrificer, At one time he drank poison to save gods from mortality while he himself remained ever immortal without being in the least affected by that dreadful poison. At another time, He burnt up the three castles of three demons that had been giving immense trouble to gods. He is also said to perform austerities and is on that account alled a Muni, the modern Dakshinamurti.
Thus we get a clear, definite and perfect picture of Rudra from the delineations given in some whole hymns  of the Rig-Veda, as well as in many stray passages found interwoven with other hymns addressed to various other deities. These attributes and functions of Rudra, except for a few personal traits, are the same as those generally attributed to the Supreme Being by the common consent of man. So far as my knowledge of the Rig-Veda is concerned, I venture to say that such a grand conception of the one Almighty God cannot be found entertained of any other god in the Rig-Vedic pantheon. Even Indra the pre-eminent deity in the Rig-Veda-pre-eminent because of the greater number of hymns (250 out of 1028) addressed to him, does not seem to have been raised to the position of an Almighty God of the universe. In one place some of the gods are spoken of as mightier than others (i27,13), While in another all are equally great (viii 30,1). In hymn 18 of the fourth book, not only all the gods but Rudra are distinctly stated to have been born but Indra too is mentioned to have been brought forth like others. And it is curious that this hymn fails not to note that the very same Indra slew his father and that Vamadeva, the author of the hymn, cooked a dog’s intestines and ate them. Nor are the gods immortal whose number amounts to three thousand and three humdred and thirty nine (iii,9,9), for in the words of Prof.A.Macdonell, “Immortality is said to have been bestowed upon them by individual deities, such as Agni and Savitri, or to have been acquired by drinking Soma”16. And on the crimes committed by gods it is not pleasant to dwell and so I dismiss them with an observation made by Dr.Barth; “In a developed and concrete from it becomes embarassing whether when it offers a conception of the gods which looks mean, gross, or even loathesome or when it simply represents them in an aspect too human, too epic, and in a sense too familiar for the religious consciousness, now grown more exacting.”17
But Lord Rudra, the father of Maruts and of many other         Rudras is nowhere said to be one amongst the gods, nor is he taken to have been born and brought up and become immortal by drinking Soma; on the other hand he is declared to be eternally young and immortal and he stood so even when he drank the deadly poison. In the whole range of the Vedic literature I do not find a single passage that ascribes to Lord Rudra either birth or death, either any imperection of mind or any mean action that characterizes man and the so-called gods. When we consider all the sublime qualities attributed to his self, we perceive in Rudra the complete conception of the Supreme Being.
But as we approach the descriptions given of his form as having red or gold complexion, his head braided hair or long loose locks, his hands as holding a strong bow and arrows, himself as coupled with a female principle, and of his feats of poison - drinking and castle-burning, we seem to encounter in him a mere human hero greatly deified. Yet, so far as his essential nature is concerned, it is clear there is nothing in it which militates against the conception of an Almighty god of the universe, What is thus inwardly great and divine cannot express itself outwardly as a low human. It is not, therefore, reasonable to bring any human interpretation to bear upon the descriptions pertaining to his form and functions. For, in judging of the actions and appearances of a person or thing, do we not find a careful consideration of the intrinsic nature of that person or thing is brought into full play? why? Because we like not to be deceived by mere appearances. For instace, a copperpiece, when it is thoroughly polished or coated with gold, glitters like gold; and so long as you do not require it, or do not feel yourself sufficiently curious to know whether it is real gold or not, you may treat it rather indifferently; but when you want it for your use, you cannot rest satisfied unless and until you have made a thorough study of it. So, here too, in studying the form and functions of Lord Rudra, we must be guided not by his mere appearances but by the light we get from his essential nature. Since, as shown above, all the Rig-Vedic passages and hymns relating to Rudra proclaim his inward nature to be supremely divine, it behoves us to interpret the nature of his form and functions also in keeping with his divine essence and not otherwise. For, how can a being that is divine through and through, that is perfect and imperishable in every way, that is all grace, bliss and intelligence, be said to assume mortal forms and perform human functions imperfect, erroneous and vengeful? When a man has risen once to the highest and the noblest conception of a being, it is unthinkable that the same man will descend down to the lowest and the meanest notion of the same being. So much opposed to each other are the Divine and human natures that one cannot say without contradiction that the very same seers who rose once to the height of the Divine conception of Rudra, sank down afterwards to the lowest level of thought, and  ascribed to him the human character also. In fact the seers in question were not so hopelessly inconsistent; what they said of the intrinsic nature of Rudra will, on a careful examination, be found to be in perfect harmony with what they declared of his form and functions. But, all-along, the kind of interpretation that has been brought to bear upon his form and functions has been incorrect and misleading. To my knowledge, even highly accomplished scholars both Hindu and European, whose patient labours in the field of ancient Vedic literature kindle the mingled feelings of wonder, admiration and gratitude in the hearts of all Vedic students, have not correctly interpreted the seemingly contradictory characters of Rudra, nor have they perceived the truth that underlies the conception of his personality, If this truth can be properly understood and grasped, it will, I believe, lead to an ultimate solution of the vexed problems of religion and set at rest all sectarian wrangles. That a clear comprehension of this important truth was reserved for the seers and saints of the old Tamil literature, will become apparent as we proceed on.    

Footnotes
1. 	“Radraya drisikam,” i 27,10, 2. “Gatha-patim medha-patim Rudram jalasha-bheshajam” “Yah sukrah iva Suryo hiranyam iva rochate/Sres ho devanam vasuh” i.3,5, 3.’kad Rudraya pra chetase mithusetamya tavyase/vochema Santamam hride” i, 3, 1.
2. 	Imah Rudraya tavase kapardine kasyad-virays prabharamabe matih/Yatha sam asad dvipade chatushpade vasvam pushtam grame asminnanaturam” “Divo varabam arusham kapardinam dvesham rupam” “Pitre Marustam/rasva cha no a mrita marta bhojanam” i, 114, 1,5,6, 
3.	“Sreshtho Jatasya Rudra sriya’, si tavastamas tavasam vajra babo”,ii, 33,3,
4.	 “tva bhishajam srinomi” it, 33,4, 
5.	“Ridudarah suhavo” ivid, 5, 
6.	“isanad asya bhuvanasya bhurer na vai u yoshad Rudrad asuryam” ‘ibid,9, 
7. 	“navai ojiyou Rudra tvad asti” ibid, 10, 
8. 	“Rudram yajnanam Sadhadishtim apasam” iii, 2,5. 
9. 	“Prisnim vochanta mataram/adhapitaram ishminam Rudram” v.52, 16, 
10. 	“Yuva pita svapah Rudrah esbam sudugha Prisnih sadina Marudbhyah” v.60,5, 
11. 	“Ya ugrah iva Sarya-hatigma-sringo na vamsagah/Agne poro rurojitha” vi, 16,39. “Pratar Bhagam Pushanam Brahmanaspatim pratah somam uta Rudram huvema” vii, 41, 1; “Yabhih Sivah svavan evayavabhir”x.92,9
12.	“Imah Rudraya sthira-dhan vane girah kashipreshave devaya svadhavne | ashalbaya  sahamanaya vedhase tiginayudhaya bharata srinotn nah | sa hi kashayena kshamayasya janmanah samrajyena divyasya chetati” vii, 46,1,2.

13.	“Kesi Agnim kesi visham bibarti roadasi | kesi visvani svar drise kesi idam jyotir uchyate | antarikashena patati visva rupa vachakast-Munir devasya devasya saukrityaya sakha hitab” s, 136, 1,4.
14.	“Kesi vishasya patrena yad Rudrenapibat saha” s. 136,7.
15. 	Muir’s Sanscrit Texts, Vol iv. p.357.
16.	Sanscrit Literature, p.71.
17. 	The Religions of India, p.27.

CHAPTER II
EXPLANATIONS
Why was the common and impersonal heavenly Father of mankind individualized as Rudra? Why Was he described as possessing a form of light glowing with red or gold colour? And why was he said to remain in an inseparable union with a female deity called Prisni, Aditi or Uma? These are questions, correct answers to which will, I hope, unravel the mystery that encircles his individuality and will render the universal conception of God distinctly intelligible, simple and immensely useful. I will, therefore, make an attempt to find out an answer for every one of them.
In the first place, let us consider why God was individualized as Rudra. The common consent of man tends to take God as all-gracious and all-beneficient; and the Rig-Veda too speaks of Rudra as all-gracious and all-beneficent. Why should God be gracious and beneficent? As all living beings are buried in mental darkness, as they all suffer greatly on that account, in order to release them from that darkness and from that suffering, a supreme being who is all light, love and happiness must necessarily exist; and unless he be gracious and merciful he cannot be said to be sensible of their pains and sufferings, nor can he be regarded as inclined to help and free them from such sufferings. These invaluable qualities; grace, and mercy it is that bring him into vital, active and intimate relation with man and other living things. As has been pointed out by Prof.William James,1 his immateriality, his infinitude, his absoluteness and transcendence have no interest for man, since they do not serve to bring him directly near to his suffering children. No doubt, philosophers from Xenophanes, Parmenides and Plato of the old Greek school down to our own Sankaracharya and Spinoza, Berkeley and Kant, all held that there existed but one true substane, a colourless, formless, impalpable and incomprehensible Absolute transcending the limits of time and space and abstracted from all material and mental phenomena which, according to them, have no existence of their own but are supposed to be mere null and void. But “to think of it in this way,” says Walter Pater, the eminent critic, thinker and model prose-writer of modern age, “was in reality not to think of it at all; - That in short Being so pure as this is pure nothing”2. And the same writer again wisely observes: “Thereafter, in every age, some will be found to start a fresh quixotically, through what waste of words! in search of that true substance, the One, the Absolute, which to the majority of acute people is after all but zero, and a mere algebraic symbol for nothingness.”3 Thus the human instincts and intellect can never be satisfied with a dispassionate and unsympathetic Absolute which is held by some to exist out of all relation with man and the world. Indeed, his daily wants, cares and sufferings create in man an ever persistent desire to seek a remedy for all these evils and to picutre God as the greatest physician who keeps all healing medicines in his hands. That is why the Rig-Veda calls Rudra the physician of physicians-the modern Vaidyanath. Nor has man erred in putting his trust in God believing him to be his gracious father and beneficent friend who is every nearer to him than even his own soul and body, since there are clear indications in the provisions of nature which exhibit beyond doubt God’s love and care for all living beings. Wherefore it is that Lord Rudra is called the father of the world in Rig-Veda.4 While setting up hard life-struggles in the loweranimal kingdom for calling forth the energy and intelligence of its denizens, has not Nature provided the weaker ones with a foreknowledge of dangers, with colours hardly distinquishable from their habitat, with swift feet and steel-like horns? And is not man himself above all endowed with superior intelligence and reasoning faculties, a careful, timely and judicious exercise of which may enable him to overcome almost all difficulties and maintain a happy life? An intelligent study of Biology will disclose the fact that in all its dealings with life and life-adjustments Nature is always just and gracious.
Where this love-nature exists, there all that have life can never live one apart from the other. Love is the bond of union but its opposite hate cuts it asunder. If God be a being animated with love, then he cannot stand away from the suffering souls the objects of his love. As God is love, so too are all living beings, especially the human, constituted of love. Man can never live without discovering this love nature of God, without discovering from the core of his heart his own unquenchable love of God. The veriest savages whom we think lowest in the scale of human intelligence and civilisation are nevertheless shown by Andrew Lang5 to possess the highest conception of the Supreme Being, of a kind and loving Heavenly Father whom they worship with all the love and humility they are capable of. Just as he sees his children everywhere, so also must his children see him, meet him and mingle with him. Being a spirit of infinite power, he can see them as well through mind as through matter, but they of finite mental powers cannot, at this stage of evolution, see him through the mind’s eye as they can through the physical. Until they reach that highest stage in which their mental eye will open to see him face to face in all his pristine glory and dazzling splendour, will he leave them to grope after him in darkness? No; he will not, he cannot, for he is all love for his children; it is because of this love that he willingly condescends to show a little of himself even through the physical matter, so that we may see him even with our physical eyes, meet him and mingle with him to a permitted degree. When in this way the Supreme Lord of the universe shows us a little of himself he is supposed to have individualized himself for our sake and is, on that account, spoken of as Rudra. But in fact, he does not become finite thereby. Just as from our point of view the immense body of the sun looks like a tiny circular plate of polished gold, so too the infinite God of the world looks to our feeble physical and mental eyes as if he were but a finite little person like ourselves. Yet his finitude is simply apparent and not wholly true. In fact his seeming littleness is the effect of two causes. The first of which is, as shown above, the soul’s incapacity to perceive his boundless nature and extent, while the second is the limited nature of the physical matter itself which can but serve to manifest only a part of his glory, standing as it does, mid-way between himself and ourselves as a meeting point.     
Footnotes 
1.	The Varieties of Religious Experience, pp. 445-447.
2. 	Plato and Platonism, p.34.
3 .	Ibid, p.40. Italics are mine.
4. 	“Bhuvanasya pitaram,” vi, 49,10.
5. 	The Making of Religion, Ch.IX,X,XI and XII.
 

CHAPTER III
THE INTERMEDIATE 
PART OF MATTER

Well, what part of the physical matter, then, does stand as a meeing-point at which the Supreme being and the individual selves come together and by means of which the latter are enabled to see the former, enjoy the glorious sight and offer to it their humble prayers and forms of worship? This important question leads us on to a consideration of our second question also, namely, why is Lord Rudra is spoken of as having a form of light glowing with the red or gold colour?
That God is immanent everywhere in this physical matter is an undisputed fact, but what part of it serves to show him to us is the most momentous question to be settled. For, that which is susceptible of receiving the finest spiritual light of God and that which can transmit that light to our eyes, must itself possess a nature analogous to that of God to a permissible extent; otherwise its mediumistic function cannot take place. Let us, therefore, turn to matter to inquire which part of it possesses that rare intermediate character in itself.
For all practical purposes the whole material world is, as we all know, resolvable into five primary elements as fire, air, earth, water and ether. Of these air and ether are invisible and as such cannot relate themselves to our   sight; earth is an opaque body of matter though it contains here and there some bright substanes and crystalline  bodies; water is, no doubt, a transparent substance but it has no light of its own; and so the only thing left for us to consider is fire alone. Not only is fire self-luminous but it also possesses heat and many other properties which make it a fitting receptacle for taking in god’s spiritual light. Whether fire is a substance as was held by Helmholtz,1 or only a form of energy as is held by other scientists, is a subject immaterial for our present purpose. It is a veritable fact in nature which appeals to our senses of touch and sight and we shall therefore, treat it with Helmholtz as a physical element. Nevertheless, the truth must not be overlooked that fire lies half-way between spirit and matter; otherwise it could not serve as a medium for transmitting to us the spiritual light of the Supreme Being.
Having shown the fact that fire constitutes, by its very nature, a medium or-meeing point for God and individuasouls, to come together, let me proceed to consider its other properties which serve to render it a principle approaching God in its character and function. God possesses a spiritual light which dispels mental darkness and enlightens soul’s understanding; even so fire emits light which drives away outer darkness and illumines our eyes. God is beneficent in his creative and preservative functions but fierce when performing the destructive; and so too is fire. So long as you make an intelligent and careful use of fire, it is very kindly towards you, for it cooks your food, it warms you against cold, it manufactures for you various articles of value, it drives steam-engines, steam-ships and what not, but when it gets beyond your control, or when it vomits flaming liquid matter through volcanic craters, what is more terrible, more destructive in its action than fire? It simply burns up all and reduces everything to mere ashes. Again, God creates, preserves and destroys all and so also does the fiery mass called the sun; for is it not a well-known fact that without the presence of solar light and solar heat no living thing can come into being nor can it exist? Why so far? For the very maintenance of life, we require a certain amount of heat in our body; when our temperature becomes abnormal, either by going up or by sinking down the utmost limit, the spark of life is instantly extinquished God is the purest being imaginable and although he is present as closely in impure things as in pure, he is not in the least defiled by any impurities but cleanses them all of their filth and makes them as pure as himself; and fire also is the only element within our experience which is not tainted by its contact with any amount of filth, but which burns up all impurities and changes them all into pure white ashes; other elements; air, water, and earth get themselves defiled with dirt. God is both visible and invisible, visible only to devout souls in a form assumed in the twinkling of an eye like lightning-flash, but invisible to others even while existing everywhere; and fire also has the same characteristics, since it suddenly makes its appearance at a point where you kindle it successfully, while in its invisible state it exists everywhere all through the world and its objects. Hence it is that when occasion arises for speaking of these two aspects of God simultaneously, the Upanishads such as ‘Svetasvatar’ and kaivalya and the Tamil Saints such as Appar and Meikandan illustrate them by painting out the two phases of fire which resemble them almost. Now it must be obvious the similarity that obtains between God and Fire is quite close in almost all respects so far shown.
And I may add that since all who speak of God speak of him as the supreme spiritual light, according to the law which makes substances of like nature combine together  most intimately, God manifests himself to us through the physical light existing in it in the most intimate union conceivable. This fact must have originally impressed itself on the minds of ancient sears so vividly that they come to think of God ever after either as Fire (Agn) or as the God of fire. To the two conceptions, the Rig-Veda bears ample testimony, as is clear from the passages beginning with “Thou, Agni, art Rudra”2, and with “The long-haired being sustains fire; he is called this light”3
Footnotes		
1 	Popular Lectures on Scientific Subjects, Vol. 1, P.151.
2. 	1, 1, 19.
3. 	“Tvam Agne Redre,” R. 1,6.
4. 	Rig-Veda, “Kesi agaim Kesi Vishnam Kesi bibharti rodasi Kesi idam jyotir ucbyati” X.136,1.

CHAPTER IV
FIRE WORSHIP AMONG OTHER ANCIENT
RACKS
Even much anterior to the compllation, if not the compositon of the Rig-Vedic hymns, that this conception of God as the God of fire lay imbedded in the thoughts of all higher intelligent human beings which occupied the different centres of civilisation on this earth is becoming clearer and clearer, as the remarkable records left by them come to light by the indefeligable labours of antiquarians. In one of the early Egyptian inscriptions, the competition of which is stated to have taken place three thousdand years before Christ, it is said, “The God of the world is in the light above the firmaments his emblania are upon earth it is to them that worship is rendered daily. “The emblama of light alladed to in this inscription are, go doubt, the so called phallic stones set up and worshipped all over the world. In the still earlier Aecadian record, we find the highly civilised Chaldeans worshipping God in the sun, the moon, and the fire and glorifying him in a hymn that, “The firegod, the first-orn supreme, unto heaven they pursued and no father did he knew”1. They erected a very huge and magnificant temple for the moon-god at Ur not only a great central place of worship but also the famous capital of their kingdom. They called the moon-god by the name of Nannar. They had similar temples, also for the sun-god, one of which was built as Sippara before 3800 B.C.; and in which they worshipped him under the name of Tammuz.2 The Babylonians also were the worshippers of the Sun-god, as is manifest from an inscription on the stone-tablet which was deposited about the year 880 B.C., and on which was found written the following; “The image of Shamash, the great Lord, who dwells in the ‘House of the sun”3. The name of this great Lord was ‘Bel’; and a great temple was erected for him in Babylon. The very name ‘Babylon’ seems to be a corruption of ‘Bel il”, which mean ‘The House of Lord’; but Ragozin derives it from the Semitic name ‘Babilu’ which means ‘The gate of God”4, The principal divinity of the Phoneicians also was the Sun-god called ‘Baal’ whom they worshipped in both the aspects beneficent and maleficent-beneficent as giving life and light, maleficent as emitting fire and hot summer heat4, When we turn to Hebrew scriptures we find the sun worshipped under a still earlier name ‘El’, and the sun-god called ‘El shaddai,’ When Jehovah appeared unto Moses, he said, “I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob as El Shaddai (which is taken to be a Hebrew name meaning God Almighty), but by my name Jehovah I was not known to them”5. And of God’s appearance to Moses in the form of fire it is distinctly stated in Exodus (Ch XIX, 16-18) thus; “And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled. And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount. And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke because the Lord descended upon it in fire”.
So far it is clear that not only was the conception of God as the God of fire commonly held by the Egyptians, the Accadians, the Babylonians, the Phoenicians and the  Hebrews of very ancient times but even the very word expressing that conception is found almost the same in all their religious writings. Concerning this common feature of their religions what Mr. Ragozin, a great and able his torian of the ancient races, says, is very important and no table. He says: “It is to be noticed that the Semites gave the first place to the Sun, and not, like the Shumiro-Accads to the Moon, possibly from a feeling akin to terror, experiencing as they did his destructive power, in the frequent droughts and consuming heat of the desert.” “The Semitic language of Babylonia which we call ‘Assyrian’, while adapting the ancient writing to its own needs, retained the use of the sign ‘star,’ and read it ilu, ‘God,’ The word-Eu or El-we find in all semitic languages, either ancient or modern, in the names they give to God, in the  Arabic Allah as well as in the Hebrew Elohim”6. This discloses the fact that the word ‘Allah’ is after all but a modified form of the oldest name of God ‘El,’ I wish yu to remember this important old word, since I shall have to return to it when I come to discuss the affinity existing between some Samitic and Accadian words and Tamil words.
Leaving aside these ancient people of the old world for a while, let us turn our attention to some of the equally  antique races that inhabited the new world. In central and south America, there existed in the remote past certain nations and kingdoms whose relies and remains especially many palaces and temples in a sufficiently preserved condition, still stand to testify to the glorious height to which the civilisation of those people bad risen. Amongst the oldest peoples of Mexico, the Maya race stands pre-eminent for its civilisation, as has been observed by Prof. Konrod Haebler, who says, “The peoples to whom Central America owes the peculiarly high development of its civilisation belong to the Maya race,”7 The grand temple of the sun built by them can still be seen in the ruins of the once-prosperous town called Palenque. The same authority writes: “The worship of the sum occupied a foremost place in the Maya religious observances”8. And the “Toltees another civilized section of the ancient Mexicans, also paid their adoration only to the sun, the moon and the stars9. In the opinion of Prof. Haebler the age of these civilized races goes back to the oldest period in the Jewish chronology. Again, in still earlier ages there lived in Peru in South America still more civilized races among whom the natives of Chimu held the highest rank. Stounch worshippers they were of the sun-god as in evident from a terracotta image that was found by Mr.T. Hewitt Myring; and the manufacture of this image is computed to have taken place in 5000 B.C.10. Side by side with the sun-god they paid their homage to the moon-god also11.
Once more turn we now to the old world. Coming to later times we find great thinkers in reece, such as Heraclitus. Parmenides and Leucippus who lived in the sixth and fifth centuries before Christ, arguing to discover in fire the great moving principles of the world12, Mr. Bettany says that the idea of the greatest Greek God-Zesus   took its rise from the conception of the son as the life and light-giving divinity of the world13. And as in the inner most sanctuary of the temple of Apollo they kept fire always burning on the altar in front of the image, the fact is undeniable that the olden day Greeks worshipped God in the form of fire only. That the Romans also adored only the god of fire is evident from the view they held of the highest god ‘Jupiter’ as ‘the god of light’14. Nor was the conception of the old Teutons who lived in the extreme north western corner of Europe, at variance with this universal conception of God, since they too contemplated their highest god ‘Woden’ as possessing the sun for his eye and their other god ‘Thor’ as ruling rain, lightning and thunder.2
Now these facts furnished by the history of the ancient civilized races and their religions would, I believe suffice to throw light on the inborn tendency of the highly developed human mind to conceive of fire as the fittest embodiment of the spiritual light and heat of God. I need hardly say that the term ‘fire’ is used here to denote all luminous bodies, whether they possess a positive light like the sun, or only a reflected light as the moon.
It is to be further observed that in order to conceive God as the spiritual fire and view him as ever present in fire and fiery bodies, man must have attained to a certain high stage of mental development, as is evident from the historical facts quoted alove; for in the accounts given of savages and their religious ideas, we do not meet with any such noble, high and intimate view of God. That they, in fact, had, and still have, as shown by Andrew Lang, a clear and unmistakable notion of the existence of a single Supreme Being is not to be doubted; and yet they do not seem to have discovered fire as constituting the meeting-point through which man’s direct communion with God becomes possible.
By the side of savages and ordinary peoples there have always been in all places certain highly developed intelligent individuals who entertain ideas mentally, morally and religiously superior to and different from, those held by ordinary people; and only such had ever been, and still are, the real pioneers of civilisation. And to such people alone is given the rare and subtle faculty to perceive the great truth hidden in nature. No wonder then, that, from the remotest past, only the civilised nations of the world and not others had discovered the grand truth about God, formed the right conception of him and worshipped him through fire. As an instance of this, I may quote an incident from Prof. Haebler’s history of the ancient Inca race. Once an Inca prince called Maita Capak ordered the people of the surrounding countries to bring all the images of their gods into the town, under the pretence of celebrating festivities for them. When they had done so, he got all the images broken to pieces and built them into the walls of the great sun-temple, simply to show the people of the helplessness of their gods. This Inca ruler belonged to the ancient race of Chimu whose civilisation, as shown above, goes back to 5000 B.C.15 There are many other incidents similar to this, but space and time forbid me to quote them. From what has been shown, it must be apparent that from time immemorial, not only noble and correct conceptions of Nature’s truth but a partial recognition of it, in many cases, even low, mean and mistaken notions of it also have been existing side by side. 
Footnotes
1. 	Mathommedanism by G.T. Bettany, M.A., p.2.
2. 	(bid, p.37; ep. this wish Isavasyopanishad, 4.
3. 	Chaldea by Z.A. Ragozin, p.213.
4. 	Ibid, p.248.
5. 	Ibid, 240.
6. 	Mohammedanism by Bettany, p.52
7. 	Exodus, vi,3.
8. 	Chaldea,  p.232.
9. 	Harmsworth History of the World, p, 5728.
10. 	Ibid, p.5758,
11. 	The Story of Mexico by Susan Hale, p.27,
12. 	Harmsworth History of the world, p. 5817.
13. 	Ibid, p.5836.
14. 	Windleband’s A History of Philosophy, p.62
15. 	Mohammedabism, p,187,
16. 	Ibid, p,259,
17. 	Ibid, p, 286,288.
18. 	Harmsworth History of the world, p. 5849.


CHAPTER V
PERCEPTION OF TRUTH  
Then the question would eventually suggest itself to your mind, how came it about for the ancient civilized man to get at the truth, whether it was by instinct or by intuition or by reasoning or by the development of some new mental faculty, or by all these combined together? Our attempt to answer definitely to any one of these questions will involve us in insoluble difficulties of thought; and it, therefore, seems safe to explain the matter by taking mind as a whole and indivisible principle. So long as the development of mind is incomplete, it can know nothing directly of itself without the aid of material means and sense organs both internal and external; that is to say, an imperfeet mind can perceive only something directly and some other thing which is beyond the range of its perception indirectly by way of proceeding from what is known to the unknown. In the language of Logic the knowledge acquired indirectly is called inferential. Where any thing can be known directly, the troublesome process of inferring, as being liable to mislead, is willingly dispensed with. By this I do not mean to say that direct perception alone is true and inference misleading. Both are likely to deceive us, if they are not carefully and properly carried on. Yet, if an intelligent use is made of, the one will corroborate the truth of the other, When mind reaches a high stage of development, its perceptive function is performed quite independently of any inferential process. Substances and occurrences not knowable with the help of sense-organs are oftentimes directly perceived by mind with a wonderful accuracy. The eminent psychologist F. W.H. Myers has given, in his epoch-making work ‘Human Personality’ (p.80), the names of several well-known mathematical prodigies who, without the least mechanical means, could work out the most intricate sums in arithmetic and find out the result in a minute. Among them, the case of an uneducated little boy called Dase is the most astonishing of all, for, in the words of Myers, he “received a grant from the Academy of Sciences at Hamburg, on the recommendation of Gauss (another mathematical prodigy from his third year), for mathematical work; and actually in twelve years made tables of factors and prime numbers for the seventh and nearly the whole of the eighth million, a task which probably few men could have accomplished, without mechanical aid, in an ordinary life.”1 As illustrating the remarkable mind-power of Emanuel Swedenborg to perceive things hidden from the perception of average human intellect, Andrew Lang states the following case; “Kant, however, prints one or two examples of Swedenborg’s successes. Madame Harteville, widow of the Dutch envoy in Stockholm, was dunned by a silver smith for a debt of her late husband’s. She believed that it had been paid, but could not find the receipt.  She therefore asked Swedenborg to use his renowned gifts. He promised to see what he could do, and three days later, arrived at the lady’s house while she was giving a tea, or rather a coffee, party. To the assembled society Swedenborg remarked, ‘in a cold-blooded way, that he had seen her man, and spoken to him.’ The late Mr. Harteville declared to Swedenborg that he had paid the bill, seven months before his decease; the receipt was in a cupboard upstairs. Madame Harteville replied that the cupboard had been thoroughly searched to no purpose. Swedenborg answered that, as he learned from the ghost, there was a secret drawer behind the side-plank within the cupboard. The drawer contained diplomatic correspondence, and the missing receipt. The whole company then went upstairs, found the secret drawer, and the receipt among the other papers. Kant adds Swedenborg’s clairvoyant vision from Gothenburg, of a great fire at Stockholm (dated September 1756).”2. It is no easy thing to convince such a great sceptic thinker as Kant of the supernatural powers of a man, unless he himself had actual personal experiences for believing them to be true. In the case of Swedenborg a high - developed clairvoyant vision had become an undoubted fact of great spiritual significance, believed not only by himself but also by other great men of his time. Swedenborg himself says that it pleased God to open the sight of his Spirit so that he might see the things in the spiritual world and give a correct account of them3. It is remarkable that he too declares, “The Divine Life isinternally in the fire of the sun of the   spiritual world, but externally in that of the son of the natural world.”4 So far it is plain that when the human mind arrives at a high stage of development, it acquires the rare and subtle faculty of sounding the depths of nature’s mysteries without having recourse to any external means of knowledge. I deem it, therefore, not improbable that the seers amongst the civilized nations of the past had acquired a direct knowledge of the intimate relation in which God and fire exist, not through any reasoning process that we pursue, but quite independently of it; for do we not find even in this scientific age in which the reasoning process has attained its zenith, man remains still powerless to discover this nearness and clear manifestation of God but gropes in its very light like the blind man and expresses mistaken ideas not only about God but also about other important matters connected with it? 
	
Footnotes
1. 	Human Personality, p. 83.
2. 	The Making of Religion, p. 26.
3. 	God, Creation, Man, p.19
4.	 Ibid, p.34, 

CHAPTER VI
SUPREME QUALITY OF
THE CONCEPTION

Now coming back to our subject the conception of God as Rudra, I find in it a rare excellence not met with in similar conceptions held in the minds of other ancient nations. No doubt, when they came to speak of their vision of God, they declared that he had appeared in light or descended as fire, but as regards the spiritual form in which he appeared they gave us no any very clear description of it. That only shows some lack still in their mental development. But in the case of ancient Indian seers, the description of God’s spiritual form is quite clear, definite and easy to imaginc. For Lord Rudra is said to have a spiritual form glowing with red colour. The possession of red colour speaks volumes for his almighty power and grace. Even on this material plane, to the very act of seeing things and distinguishing one from the other, different shades of different colours possessed by each are very essential. In importance colour stands first, while light is only secondary, since light simply illumines the former and does nothing more, whereas colour does all the rest necessary for the acquisition of objective knowledege. Further, light itself does not become visible without some colour, whereas colours exist independently of light.
Now, of all colours having so much vital significance, only two; red and blue, are supremely important, since they are primary; others being merely the blending of the two in varying proportions. Notwithstanding the fact that many scientists hold three colours to be primary. Prof. Helmholtz “the first (scientific) head in Europe since the death of Jacobi” takes only two.1 As regards the red colour the opinions of the scientists are unanimous; but as regards the other primary colour they disagree. “Young took violet for the other primitive colour,” while others take it to be either green or blue; one of the greatest scientists “Maxwell considers that it is more properly blue.”2  Again, one of the profoundest thinkers and scientific men of the present century, I mean Prof. William James, takes only red and blue as the original colours.3
These two colours signify many vital truths which underlie the workings of both the physical and spiritual forces in nature and which up to this time remain undreamt of even in the domain of science. Let us, therefore, consider the significance which they bear in relation to our subject. All the physical forces in nature may be divided into two classes as heat and cold. Formerly it was thought that heat and light were distinct energies; but now after the most carefully conducted investigations they are considered as identical.4 When intense heat makes its appearance with light, it glows with a red colour; similarly when cold bursts into our view it shines blue. For instance, look at the burning fire, it is red; then look at the sea, it is blue; and the sky also looks blue owing to the presence in it of watery vapour. Much more strongly may the truth of my statement be brought home to your mind, if you notice the experiments made in Chemical Science. Watch the functions of the two gases called oxygen and hydrogen. It is said that oxygen is a fiery gas, for without which fire cannot burn nor can life be maintained and that hydrogen is a watery gas, for without which no water can be obtained nor life prolonged. What are the colours of these two gases? Let us watch the experiments. By means of electric currents the chemist at first decomposes a quantity of water into these two gases and afterwards collects them in two glass  tubes. Soon after he brings a red-hot splinter of wood and holds it above the up-turned mouth of theoxygen-tube and you see the splinter at once bursting into a red or yellow flame and burning; but when the same splinter is brought near the down-turned mouth of the hydrogen-tube, instead of the splinter, the gas itself within the tube is lighted and burns with a pale blue flame. Now from this you see it conclusively proved that the fiery element is always red and the watery always blue. 
Let us see next what more is signified by the two colours. Inasmuch as fire is fierce and strong on account of its heat and burning power, it was thought by all the ancients to be a masculine element. And the red colour also by its inseparable association with fire came to be looked upon as a mark of the masculine principle. In the same way, water being cool and pleasant to touch was regarded as feminine and its blue colour as symbolizing the feminine principle. This fact was perceived long ago by Prof.William James and expressed by him in a terse but pregnant sentence. “We find” he says, “something masculine in the colour red and something feminine in the colour pale blue,”5
But the fiery and watery elements are inanimate things and consequently they can neither move of their own accord nor can they move the things different from themselves; still less can they so combine together as to bring forth these worlds and the wonderful variety of organisms. And it is impossible that animate beings which are finite in power and intelligence should achieve such an arduous, unwieldy and immesurable task as the creation of the universe. Consequently, there must be within them all a central willpower imbued with unlimited intelligene to unite and disunite them, to combine and re-combine them in such due proportions as will tend to bring them into existence and set them in motion.
It is this will-power that we call God. As he is all love and intelligence, as he has no touch of corporcality in him, he cannot have any corporal form for any purpose; his form must therefore be purely spiritual. How is this possible? you may ask; but reflect a little. You see a white lily in a valley and admire its beauty very much; but when you leave the valley and go home, you desire to tell your people what all you have seen about it. In the first place, you make a mental picture of the lily within you, and then give a vivid description of its striking qualities. What you saw before in the valley is a physical lily but that which you now have in your mind is a spiritual lily. The two lilies are equally real though quite distinct in that the one seen outside perishes in a few days whereas the other perceived inside your mind persists for ever. From this it is plain that, while the form is common to both the physical and psychical images, the substances of which you are sensible there is a metaphysical counterpart within your mind. Now apply this as an analogy to the Divine mind, for in point of mental quality it cannot but be analogous to the human mind, of course, with necessary differences for its boundless power and perfect intelligence. I have shown above that the whole material universe is resolvable into two general categories as fire and water; now therefore under fire and water, we may classify all forces into heat and cold, all colours into red and blue, and all organisms into male and female. I have also shwon that God is immanent in all inanimate things as well as in animate and sets them all in motion. According to the psychological law explained just now, all these physical forms must be concluded to have as their psychical counterparts in the Divine mind spiritual forms greatly idealized by the nature of the Supreme principle in which they inhere. If God be a principle of thought-such it actually is, then it cannot but have thought-forms. For, the very development of thought, nay its very existence, consists in the increasing number of thought-forms which it acquires and accumulates. Without form, without mental images, we cannot understand what thought is. What are they learning and knowledge and experience, except being a mental store-house of distinct ideal images formed in correspondence to outer and inner objects? Can you imagine a mind which is quite blank? An empty mind, as in the case of a new-born child, can exist only in darkness and ignorance, but not in light and intelligence. As in the instance of the human mind all excellence consists in the storing-up of ideal images, so also in the case of the Divine mind its infinite greatness consists in the glory of its ideal forms. And yet, the parallel between the two minds should not be stretched too far; because the human mind remains, in its primitive state, completely enveloped in darkness; and only after being set in an exquisitely organized frame as this body of ours, does it come out of the gloom, only after that does it discern objects and form mental images, having all along those very objects for their prototypes; whereas the Divine mind not only exists free from the contact of such blinding darkness, but it also shines ever with its own brilliant light. Therefore the Divine mind could not have derived its ideal forms from the created matter, since, previous to creation, matter itself had no form of its own in its subtile original condition. It was the form of the Divine thought itself that impressed the formless matter and shaped it into its present forms.
That thought has forms, that it has power to impress matter and produce in it forms corresponding to its own, have been proved experimentally by Dr. Baradue, an eminent and original French scientist. Relative to Dr. Baradue’s discovery of thought-photography. Dr. James coates remarks as follows: “Dr.Baraduc, a well-known savant, made a communication to the Academic de Medecine in May, 1896, in which he detailed a variety of experiments, and affirmed that he had succeeded in photographing thought. He exhibited numerous photographs in proof. His usual mode of procedure was simple enough. The person whose thought was to be photographed entered into a dark room, placed his hand on a photographic plate, and thought intently of the object to be produced. It is stated by those who have examined Dr. Baraduc’s photographs that some of them looked very cloudy, but a few of them were comparatively distinct, and represented the features of persons and the outlines of things. Dr. Baraduc went further; he declared that it was possible to produce a photographic image at a great distance.”6 This may be corroborated by what Mr.C.W. Leadbeater states of his interview with the great French scientist. “The recent experiments of Dr. Baraduc of Paris,” he says, “seem to show quite conclusively the possibility of photographing these invisible vibrations. When last I was there he showed me a large series of photographs in which he had succeeded in reproducing the effects of emotion and of thought.”7 Seeing that science itself proves the existence and potency of thought-forms, I think we are on safe solid ground when we attribute thought-forms to the Divine mind and affirm that the entire creation both the organic and the inorganic bear the clear impress of its thought and purpose. It is quite obvious, then, that what we see in creation is nothing but the objective counterpart of what exists in God’s mind rather in a subjective form. Hence it is plain that to a study of tha nature and constitution of the Supreme principle of intelligence, we get a clue from the creation itself.
Just as matter is analysable into fiery and watery elements, into red and blue colours, and into male and female organisms, God also can be thought of as thermal and aqueous, red and blue, male and female, all, of course, rather spiritually, without the slightest tinge of corporeality, Why God should be taken thus as the repository of such opposite qualities, we shall consider a little. If God be a purely fiery being creation cannot take place; for, we see whenever intense heat comes into contact with any visible and tangible body of matter, it simply transforms it into a finer and invisible state of matter. See, for instance, how by applying heat, we change ice into water, water into vapour and vapour into steam. Similarly all material substances, however hard they might be, can be melted and changed into an invisible and intangible condition merely by applying to them a sufficient amount of heat. But creation occurs only when invisible and intangible matter is made to assume visible and tangible forms. If God existed only in the form of intense spiritual heat, matter would be going on endlessly subtilized by its contact and no creation would have become possible. In the words of Prof. Helmholtz, “Only when heat passes from a warmer to a colder body, and even then only partially, can it be converted into mechanical work. The heat of a body which we cannot cool further, cannot be changed into another form of force-into electric or chemical force for example. Thus in our steamengines we convert a portion of the heat of the glowing coal into work, by permitting it to pass to the less warm water of the boiler.”8 So of necessity there must exist another principle spiritually cold for interpenetrating the spiritual heat energ y of God and transmitting it to subtle matter, in order to freeze it and bring it into tangible existence and make it habitable to all animate beings. Our ancient Hindu Saints and Seers called the fiery spirit the Almighty God Rudra and the cooling spirit the Almighty Goddess Uma. And in accordance with this divine law Lord Rudra stood as a male principle having a spiritual form glowing with a red colour, while Goddess Uma remained by his side as a female principle having a similar spiritual form shining with a pale blue. The two principles remain for every as two distinct individualities, and will never become a single being possessing opposite qualities. In reality God is one in two and not either one or two as many suppose.
The description given of Goddess Uma or Prisni or Aditi in the Rigveda is not at distinct as that of Lord Rudra; the colour of her spiritual form being nowhere mentioned in it. I need hardly repeat that without knowing the complexion of a body, it is not possible for us to draw a mental picture of that particular body. Even in the ancient Upanishad called the ‘Kena’, where the appearance of Goddess Uma is depicted in clear and unmistakable terms, she is merely described as a maiden of brilliant beauty and nothing more;9 of her colour nothing is even hinted at.
Let us, therefore, turn to some remnants of the oldest Tamil literature an see what they have to say on the point. Sad to relate the vast Tamil literature which was produced in the millenniums preceding the Christian era has almost perished in the Noah’s deluge and in one or two other cataclysms that followed it at long intervals and swallowed up a very large portion of the ancient Tamil country called ‘Kumari nadu.’ Of that varied and extensive literature, only a few lyrics, some idylls, and some love poems have been left by the will of Providence as remnants to testify to the once prosperous condition of the Tamil language and the people who spoke it. These literary remnants are fortunately preserved to us in the collections; Purananooru, Ahananooru, Paripadal, Kalithokai, Narrinai, Iyngurunooru, Kurunthokai, and Pathirruppathu, made in the early centuries of the Christian era by poets under the patronage of their learned kings. Apart from these fragments, a great and entire work of rare linguistic value has also outlived the accidents and it is called the Tholkappiam.    
Footnotes
1.	Popular Lectures on Scientific Subjects, Vol. I.p. 218.
2. 	Ibid, p.220, foot-note.
3. 	Talks to Teachers, pp.81,82.
4. 	Helmholtz’s Popular Lectures, Vol.I.p.210.
5.	 Talks To Teachers, pp.81&82.
6. 	Seeing the Invisble, pp.189-190	
7. 	Some Glimpses of Occultism, p.132.
8. 	Popular Lectures on Scientific Subjects, vol.I.p. 153. 
9. 	“bahu sobhamanam Umam halmavatim,”  Kena, 3,12.

CHAPTER VII
GOD IN TAMIL
LITERATURE

‘Tholkappiam’ the oldest and the completest work extant in Tamil which treats exhaustively of all grammatical subjects and rhetoric, was composed at a time when the ancient Tamil land called ‘Kumarinadu’ or ‘Lemuria’ had not been swallowed up by Noah’s deluge. All the great commentators beginning with Nakkirar, the poet-critic and president of the third Tamil Academy in the first century B.C., hold it to have been the greatest work of the antediluvian period. And there are proofs furnished from the treatise itself which go to establish it as the composition of a very high antiquity. That it must have been written prior to the Paninian grammar in Sanscrit I have shown elsewhere1 and therefore do not enter into a discussion of its age here. Anyhow, by taking it as an antediluvian work, that is to say, as a work produced two thousand and four hundred years before Christ, I believe I am not laying an extravagant claim to its antiquity.
In this valuable treatise we find mention made, among others, of two deities ‘Mayon’ and ‘Seyon’2 which are being worshipped all over India from ancient times down to the present. ‘Mayon’ means ‘The Blue Being’ and ‘Seyon’ means ‘The Red Being’ and it is to be noted that both are in the masculine gender. Mayon was in later times identified with the Puranic ‘Narayana’ and ‘Seyon’ with ‘Karttikeya.’ It is significant that the term ‘Narayana’ also means in Sanscrit ‘a watery being.’ although this conception of a watery being was unknown to the RigVeda in which the word ‘Narayana’ was never used as an appellation of Vishnu. There the term ‘Vishnu’ represents only a solar deity. I believe the word ‘Narayana’ was coined in the Tamil country, with a view to indicate the cooling principle of the Godhead and was afterwards introduced into northern parts and into later Sanscrit works where it came to be used as another name of Vishnu. Still it must not be forgotten that the senses of the two terms are quite distinct and so should on no account be confounded together in a scientific study of this great subject. It is a point worthy of note that just as in the chief sacred mantra of the Saivites the term ‘Siva’ stands pre-eminent, so in the sacred mantra of the Vaishnavites it is the word ‘Narayana’ that stands supreme and not ‘Vishnu.’
The other deity which is red was considered by the ancient Tamils to be perpetually young, and hence the word ‘Murugan’ which means ‘a young person’ came to be used as his proper name. And this conception of God as an eternally young person was not an alien one of the RigVeda, since Lord Rudra too was, as pointed out at the beginning, regarded as ever young and immortal. Still, when compared to the young Lord Muruga, Rudra looks like an adult person, although both are described as red in all the literary and religious writings that have come down to us from the hoary past. But in the whole range of the Tholkappiam nowhere is to be found any reference either to Rudra or Siva, abundant as are the allusions and invocations to him in almost all the Tamil works that came in ages subsequent to the Tholkappiam. This simply proves that the composition of the Tholkappiam must have taken place at a time when the conception of God as Rudra was quite unknown to the Tamil people. From this you see the conception of God as the young and ruddy Lord Muruga preceded the conception of it as Rudra at least in the land of the ancient Tamils. By the way I call your attention to a remarkable coincidence in the religious history of the very ancient Chaldeans and the Tamilians, that is, the coincidence of the name of their celebrated God ‘Muru’ with the first part of the name of the equally famous Tamil God ‘Muruga.’3 But in after ages when God came to be viewed, probably by the grown-up and serious-minded people, as an adult person Rudra, the young Muruga was led to occupy a subordinate position and was finally made the son of Rudra. Apart from this trivial difference, the two Gods, I believe, are quite identical in every other respect. When you dive deep into the bottom of all allegorical representations given of the two gods in the Puranas, you will find them to be fundamentally the same.
Now, let us pass on to inquire into the conception of God as ‘Mayon’ at some length. He is no doubt a blue being and a cold principal inasmuch as his Tamil name ‘Mayon’ and Sanscrit name ‘Narayana’ signify only such a being. This blue being, however, does not seem to have been regarded at first as a female principle. Further, no reference to Goddess Uma or Prisni is to be met with in the whole range of the Tholkappiam, except a single and solitary referene to a terrible goddess of war called ‘Korravai’4 Of course, it is true that this female deity came in subsequent ages to be identified with Uma and even called the mother of Lord Muruga5, but in the Tholkappiam itself there is  no evidence for such an identification. From the total absence of all allusions to a benign female deity in the Tholkappiam, I am led to conclude that seers in those primitive times did not attain to such a high degree of mental and spiritual development as would enable them to discriminate between the real male principle and the female in the Godhead.
Since fire can generate a mechanical force only through the medium of water, so too God the supreme principle of spiritual fire could effect the creation of the material world only through the spiritual cold principle Uma. When she was thus actively engaged in the creative work, she was mistaken perhaps for a male, and the seers themselves were not then in as suitable a mental condition as would enable them to get a clear vision of her spiritual form. The red light, being brighter and for that reason clearer than the blue, makes itself easier to be seen distinctly than the blue. It was because of this difficulty in the perception of spiritual colours that the original seers confused the blue colour of the Supreme Being sometimes with the black colour and some other times with the green. In both the old and new hymns addressed to Narayana, we frequently meet with expressions which represent him in one place as a blue being, in another a black, and in a third a green. In the fire itself, if you look through it acutely, you will see a pale blue light. Just as this pale blue cannot be seen as easily as the bright light of fire, so also the blue spiritual form of the Divine Mother cannot be seen so easily as the brilliant ruddy form of the Father. But in the succeeding ages, the more the spiritual vision of the seers increased in clearness, the more they came to recognise in the blue principle its feminine character.
When in this manner the motherhood of God became clearer, it was substituted for the original but mistaken notion of it as the male Narayana, and the lord Narayana himself having already become an object of great devotion, was assigned to a separate sphere and allotted a distinct function as of preserving the created worlds. That the conception of the Divine Mother came after that of Narayana is proved also by the Puranic legends which speak of her as his younger sister. In spite of the repeated attempts made by his worshippers to give stability to the original miscohception of Narayana as the male, there have not been wanting accounts which reveal his feminine character by telling us that he begot Brahma the creator from his navel-point, and that he assumed at times the form of a bewitching female called Mohini. If any additional proof be required, that may be supplied by the very names of these gods. For instance, the word Narayana, if declined into feminine gender, would stand as ‘Narayani’ which designates not his consort ‘Lakshmi,’ but only ‘Uma.’ If Narayana be a real male, his name in the feminine gender ought to indicate his consort, but such is not the case. But the names of Rudra, when declined into feminine gender, invariably stand for his consort Uma. This fact, I believe, would be enough to bear an additional testimony to the truth that Narayana is none other than the benign female principle called Prisni in the Rig-Veda. All the Puranas in Sanscrit and all the sacred scriptures in Tamil unite in attributing to the spiritual form of both Narayana and Uma a blue colour, and this undoubtedly serves to corroborate the truth of my statement that they are not two distinct individualities but one and the same Supreme Being which possesses the character of a feminine principle.
It seems that, when the motherhood of God came to be recognized by the advanced seership of highly developed minds, the numerous worshippers of Narayana, finding it not agreeable to their mind to give up their original conception of God and thinking it also beneath the dignity of their God to consider him a female (perhaps this might have been due to the contemptuous view generally entertained of the female sex), separated themselves from the earliest cult and formed a new church of their own. Thus was created a schism in the ancient Hindu church which was otherwise one single body, one inseparable unit.
Before the time of this split in the religious observance, there was only one religion and all paid their adoration as well to Lord Siva as to Narayana and Uma. Even after the creation of the schism, those who belonged to the original cult, still continued to worship all the three, without making any enviable distinction between the one and the other, as is manifest even to-day from the rites and observances prescribed in the old Siva temples all over India. For in all the Siva temples you will find not only the images of Lord Siva and Uma but also that of Lord Narayana set up in separate compartments and duly worshipped,  whereas in the Vishnu temples you will find no image of any god except those of Narayana and his consorts. This clearly establishes the fact that the schism in the old Hindu church was created not by the Saivites but by the worshippers of Lord Narayana.
This may further be proved by a glimpse into the old Tamil classics composed prior to the third century of the Christian era. In all of them one and the same poet has composed poems in glorification not only of Siva and Muruga but of Narayana also, and has invoked their blessings with an intense devotion to all the three. For instance, the poet Perundevanar has composed invocatory verses addressed to the three gods and has prefixed them separately to some of the magnificent collections of sweet, simple and pure Tamil lyrics which are remarkable for their faithful portraits alike of nature and human nature. And in a very beautiful lyric collection called ‘Paripadal,’ we find three poems composed by the poet ‘Kaduvan Illa Eainanar,’ of which two glorify Lord Narayana and one Lord Muruga, and in which neither the one nor the other is exalted at the expense of the other. The very terms Saiva and Vaishnava, by which the two great religions of India came to be known in later times, were quite unknown in the age to which this body of Tamil literature belongs. In fact these two religious denominations make their appearance at first only in Manimekhalai, an original Tamil epic of the second centuary A.D.
Besides a total absence of any reference to the two religious cults in Paripadal, no mention is made in six of its lyrics  addressed to Lord Narayana, either of Rama or of Krishna whose worship has become so prominent a factor in the later Vaishnava religion. The absence is significant since it indicates the high antiquity of some, if not all, poems of Paripadal. Evidently these must have been composed at a time when either the composition of the Ramayana or that of the Mahabharata had not as yet taken place, or else the exploits of the two heroes, mythical in all probability for I do not find them alluded to in any of the ancient Tamil classics, had not become popular in the Tamil country. Only in the literature produced from the dawn of the Christian era downwards do we meet with any reference to Krishna and Rama. Here too, in point of time, the worship of Krishna preceded the worship of Rama; for we do not come across even a casual referene to the latter in the poems of the first, second and third century A.D., just as we find the worship of Krishna clearly mentioned in them. Although from a poem (378) of the Purananuru collection and from Silappadhikaram a great epic of the second century A.D., we gather that with the dawn of the Christian era the story of the Ramayana had begun to spread among the Tamils and Rama himself came to be identified with Narayana and worshipped, remember, only by a particular class of people called ‘The Shepherds’ and not by all, yet from the same source we are led to conclude that his worship has not become even then common to all. For, while temples specially dedicated to Siva, Muruga, Baladeva, Narayana, Indra, the Sun, the Jina and the Moon are distinctly mentioned in the Silappadhikaram, none is mentioned consecrated to Rama. Even in ‘Thiruvachakam’ which contains the sacred hymns of the Saiva saint Manickavachakar who existed in the first half of the third century A.D., Rama is not alluded to even by name, while the Tamil names of Narayana such as ‘Thirumal’ and ‘Kannan’ occur in it often. And in the invocatory verses prefixed to the aforesaid collections of classical poems, only hirumal and Kannan are addressed to, but not Rama. From these facts, it is obvious that the worship of Rama should have come into vogue in the Tamil country only long after the worship of Krishna had established itself, that is, subsequent to the fifth century A.D. This conclusion based on valid literary evidence leads me to differ from those scholars who endeavour to identify Poigaiyar, the first of the twelve canonized saints of the Vaishnava faith, with a poet who bore the same name but who must have existed prior to the second century A.D., My reason for this is simply this. Rama came to be regarded as an incarnation of Vishnu and worshipped only after the sixth or the seventh century A.D., and by the time when Poigaialwar composed his hundred verses in praise of Narayana the deification of Rama became complete, as is manifest from his verses 27 and 59.
What I have said so far as regards the genesis and growth of the conception of God as Narayana marks three stages in its development to our own time. Its first stage may be divided again into two; In the prehistoric ages, that is, before and up to the time of the Tholkappiam, the Red and the Blue principles of the Godhead seem to have been cognised by the seers, one quite distinctly but the other rather somewhat dimly so as to be mistaken for a male principle; but even when in the historic period that came subsequent to the Tholkappiam and intervened until the opening of the Christian era, more gifted seers came to recognize in the blue being the Motherhood of God, the mistaken God Narayana could not be relegated to an obscure corner, but was given, in deference to the feelings of the original worshippers, an honourable place in all the ancient Siva temples and adored like the rest with due devotion.
Its second stage begins with the deification and worship of the human hero Krishna, introduced most probably by the northern brahmins who, having been rendered unable to maintain their own narrow sacrificial cult and exclusive caste pretensions against the broad principles of kindness to all beings and equality of man, that spread all over the north under the patronage of Buddhist kings, had migrated to the south and found ready shelter under the hospitality of the Tamil kings and rich landlords. They brought with them the stories of Mahabharata and the Ramayanas and by reciting the pathetic incidents of which, they enlisted the sympathy of the Tamils and became highly favoured by them. The newcomers did not care, then as now, for the highest, the nobles, and the most correct notions held by the civilized and intelligent Tamils concerning the existence, the nature and relations of God, soul, and matter but persistently strove to supplant them by what they had brought. It seems they disliked the very idea of comparing what they had brought with what had already existed in the land, but were ever bent upon asserting and establishing their own dogmas and making their own position quite secure. This was easily achieved by means of the strange romances, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, the recital of which captivated the minds of the ordinary people so easily and to so great an extent that they came to believe every words and every letter of the fiction as so many literal facts.
The ancient Tamils were a simple people who lived quite close to nature and earned their livelihood by means of their own honest toil. For their subsistence they never depended upon others nor did they delude others into false beliefs to gain their objects. Learned men among them sought only the knowledge of bare, plain, simple truths; and their poets admired only the beauties of nature and sang them in their own pure, simple, sweet, melodious Tamil. They taught the people only those bare unvarnished truths that lie deep in life and life’s vanity and impressed upon their mind the value of cultivating love, virtue and mercy as the only means leading to a final emancipation of humanity from sin and suffering. And the rulers themselves were kind and just and held the welfare of the people as their own. Moreover, they lavished their wealth on the poets and the learned and encouraged learning in every way. To a people living in such a simple state of life which offers no room for a lax and inordinate play of imagination, these romances cannot but open the view of a new and strhnge world of fiction, a peep into which sufficed to pique their fancy and afford them a hitherto unimagined pleasure. Since the ancient Tamil poets had never been in the habit of writing romances side by side with matter-of-fact narratives, the people had no means by which they could test the contents of a new production and distinguish truth from untruth, the source of a genuine pleasure from that of a spurious one. It is no wonder then that the new-comers had succeeded in exercising with these expedients so strong a magic influence over the people, as to get them completey in their grip. The learned and intelligent section of the people who were in possession of higher and nobler truths could not combat the new influence and bring back the strayed to their fold. When once you get hold of the people’s fancy, you can turn them at will against their own intelligent minority. That was how the conquest was achieved here by the northerners; and even now you may watch the same thing going on all over the country.
I have already said that it was the worshippers of Lord Narayana that were at first creating a schism in the original church. But now they were still more eagerly watching for a fitting opportunity to sever their connection completely from their mother-religion and assert and establish the one newly created. And the formidable influence brought to bear upon the masses by the introduction of aforesaid tales afforded them such an opportunity; and they were not slow to seize it and turn it to their account.
No doubt they got what they so strongly desired but in the mental gloom caused by that vehement desire they lost the precious gem. Before the commencement of the Christian era, the conception of Lord Narayana formed in the minds of his worshippers was as pure as gold. Such an ideal conception testifies to the fact that in early times they paid their worship only to the actual Supreme Being untouched by the ills which the flesh is a heir to, namely, birth and death, disease and old age. In plain words, he is said in the third lyric of Paripadal (line 72) to have had no births and therefore no parents, just as Lord Siva is invariably spoken of as unborn and immortal in all the Tamil works that came from the classical times down to our own. If the ancient seers took Narayana to be the very Almightly Being birthless and deathless, how dare ye to drag him down to the lowest level of mortals and identify him with those who were carried in the womb of a mother, born and bred like us, who were subject to many hard trials and temptations and who at last ended their lives most grievously and miserably? Could there be a greater and more monstrous profanation of God than this? Could there be a loss more serious to humanity than the loss of the most sacred and genuine truth about God? It is to be ever borne in mind that the great distinguishing mark of the Divine Being is its birthless and deathless nature. If you say that what you take to be a divine being entangled itself in births and deaths, then it is quite certain that it could not have been a divine being at all but must have been a mere human self. Great confusion has set in the religious atmosphere of modern times, by this identification of the human with the Divine. So long as man worships only man and rises not above it, he cannot get beyond the ocean of births and deaths; so long as he disdains to worship the true God, he cannot hope to be saved; and the gracious Lord of creation will set him in the wheel of evolution-this wheel of evolution being nothing else than an endless succession of births and deaths, and he will turn him round and round for ages interminable, until he realizes his own object nature in contradistinction to that which is supreme and peerless.
The saving truth which consists in discriminating between human and Divine natures, was, from the beginning, perceived so clearly by the worshippers of Lord Rudra that they could not but hold it ever afterwards as a most precious element in the knowledge of human and Divine beings. But sad to relate the worshippers of Lord Narayana had become anxious more in spreading what they regarded as their own than in keeping the ancient and original truth about God intact. It is a well-known fact that the religionists who feel very anxious to see each and all embrace their faith, by that very anxiety do mar its purity and soundness. That is how the religions of Buddha and Jina have gradually fallen into desuetude; that is how the religions of Christ and Mohammed are becoming more and more repugnant to the reason and sentiments of thoughtful persons. On great religious problems man might be made to think but on no account should he be forced to accept them quite blindly. But the Vaishnavites in their eagerness to make their religion popular, threw overboard their former ideal conception of God and put in its stead the worship of human heroes and insinuated it into the religious observances of the Tamils, the two epics having served them to do it rather imperceptibly.
It was pointed out before that the worship of Krishna was introduced into the south previous to that of Rama. The cause of it was the recital of the story of the Mahbharata which had been brought into the southby a colony of northern brahmins early in the first century A.D.A. Tamil version of the Mahabharata seems to have been made by the poet Perundevanar probably towards the end of the second century A.D. Almost the whole of this work and lost, except a few stray stanzas quoted by the great commentator Nachinarkkiniar and others. There was also another version of it made in the ninth century A.D., by another poet of the same name. And many more had been made from the ninth century downwards up to our own time.
While we have thus so many Tamil versions of the Mahabharata from the second century A.D., down to the nineteenth, we have got no more than a single version of the Ramanayana made by Kamban as late as the twelvth century A.D. Does not this fat prove itself very significant? It appears certain that the story of the Ramanyana had been brought into the south not before but only after the sixth century A.D., by a later colony of northern brahmins and made by them very popular close upon the extinction of the Buddhist and the Jaina religions, although its main incidents seem to have become known here as early as the second century A.D. Why Rama is not so often addessed to as is Krishna, even in the devotional poems of the early Vaishnava saints as Poikai, Pei and Bhutam cannot be explained on any supposition other than this. In other words, it was just at the time of the first three Alwars that the story of the Ramanayana was coming to be looked upon as sacred and that Rama himself exalted as an incarnation of Narayana. This could not have taken place prior to the second half of the seventh century A.D., for in the early centuries of the Christian era Buddhism at first and Jainism soon after were eclipsing the original creeds and only after the two heretical cults had declined and almost died out, did the two old religions begin to revive and prevail, one in its more philosophical character and the other in its newly acquired Puranic setting, I think Mr. M. Srinivasa Aiyangar, M.A., is not wrong in assigning the time of the three first Alwars to the latter half of the seventh century A.D.6
After the deified heroes of the north had, in this way, been made to usurp the place of Lord Narayana, the schism between the two faiths became more and more pronounced than it was before the beginning of the Christian era; for the worshippers of Lord Rudra feeling they could not honestly accomodate themselves to the degenerated tenets of their brother-religionists, probably thought it necessary to style themselves by a class-name which should unequivocally articulate their difference from the new church, and for this purpose chose the name ‘Saivites’-the name by which they came to be called ever afterwards from the first century A.D. As a matter of fact, the old Tamils had no name of their own making to specify either religion, simply because there was then no other creed in existence from which it must have been deemed needful to distinguish their own by a particular name, simply because the very thought of naming it did not occur to them under the circumstances then existed. A cursory glance at the immortal Tamil work of the pre-Christian era, I mean the sacred Kural of Thiruvalluvar, would be enough to convince you of the veracity of this statement made as regards the nature of the old Tamil religion. The social, moral and religious principles laid down in that great work belong not to one society or one nation or one religion, but are common to all classes of people and their thought and to all kind of religion. You cannot detect in it to what particular kind of society it is addressed, or to what people its moral and  religious instruction is imparted either in name or in substance. The sacred Kural is the real embodiment of the ancient Tamilian thought, it constitutes the very highest reach to which that thought attained. When the time comes for the world to recognize the value of the ideal teachings enshrined in this incomparable work and adopt it as the one universal Bible of the whole mankind, we may indulge in our imgination the coming of the kingdom of God verily on this earth, with its one religion, one  race and one society all inspired with genuine love for all living beings and eternal God.

Footnotes
1. 	See my Tamil work on ‘The Ancient Tamilian and  Aryan,’
2. 	Tholkappiam, Poruladhikaram, 5.
3. 	Bettany’s Mohammedanism, p.43. 
4. 	Poruladhikaram, 62.
5. 	Thirumurugarruppadai 
6. 	Tamil Studies, p.302.


CHAPTER VIII
THE EFFECT OF BRAHMIN COLONIZATION
But from the time the northern brahmins and the Sanscrit language set foot on this land, the process of deterioration set in. High qualifications were thrown into the shade; birth-right was brought to the fore. In pre-Aryan times the people who engaged in different occupations did think very respecfully of the calling of each group being useful to every other group. But as time went on, those who formerly combined to work for the general welfare of society; now came to be split up into castes and subcastes and be called by Sanscrit names which tended to breed in them vain and invidious distinctions; hero-worship was set up; legends and mythical accounts multiplied and clustered around each and every deified hero and brought into existence religious sects ever contending for supremacy one over the other; the Puranas were written so that one religious sect might produce them as their authority and fight with the other endlessly; interminable rites and ceremonies that constitute a perennial source of income to brahmin priests were invented and elaborated and stringent rules for conducting them came to be laid down in treatises - all in Sanscrit, so that the people might not know them nor practise them without the aid of priests; in short, everything calculated to tear the Tamilian society to pieces was  deftly devised and brought into operation so smoothly that nobody could apprehend the evil motive which prompted it. All these were done so cautiously as to make the new settlers’ position quite secure. Here I am very anxious to notify that in thus recounting the causes which led to the degeneration of the Tamilian society, my motive should not be misconstrued or misunderstood as anything but good. For a correct understanding of the root-causes that were at work in bringing about the disintegration of a highly civilized society will, as all must admit, help us, in our reconstructive work, to discern the destructive and disastrous elements in it and eliminate them from their usurped place. The amazing progress which other nations have achieved in all walks of life, calls for our immediate action so to re-organize our society as to make each member of it co-operate whole-heartedly with every other in accordance with the needs of the time and bring back its kdeal state and set it as a model to others. Unless we compare our present position with our past and adopt remedial measures to remove at once the canker that eats into the vitals of our society, we cannot expect to live long and happily but must die soon and miserably in the midst of an enlightened community which is more vigorous, whose life is more wholesome and more capable of adapting itself to varying conditions of life as time varies in its progress.


CHAPTER IX
DESCENSION OF VAISHNAVAISM
To return to our subject, the worshippers of Rudra and Uma, who were called the ‘Saivites’ in after times, held so steadfastly to their original conception of God that they ever persisted in not bringing the two Supreme Beings down to the level of mortal man. Even while they were inventing stories for the sake of instructing masses and counteracting the influence exercised by the two famous epics, they were ever solicitous to impress on our minds the supreme truth about Lord Siva and Uma that they are unborn, immortal and superhuman. Often and often do we meet with this unequivocal declaration in all their writings, however absurd, fantastic, and extravagant they may seem to us in other respects. But it is regrettable that our brother-religionists drifted farther and farther away from their original conception of Lord Narayana to such a long distance as not only to lose sight of his unborn and immortal nature but to ascribe also births and deaths and human sufferings to him.
Besides cherishing this contemptible conception of God, they even took to view Narayana as one of the three gods who make up the later Hindu Triad and then tried to lift him up above the other two. This marks the third stage of descent to which the Vaishnava religion has gone down from the time of the early Alwars up to our own. Although we come across one or two stray references to the Hindu Triad in the classical Tamil poems written at the beginning of the Christian era, we do not find there any one of the Triad made supreme and others subordinates. To the still earlier Tamil poems the Trinity is altogether unknown. Even when the Trinity came to be admitted, the old Tamils held a fourth being Lord Muruga to be superior to the three.1 This constitutes the pre-eminent doctrine of God-of God being the fourth principle lying above and beyond the three gods; Brahma, Vishnu and Rudra, to which the Saivites cling tenaciously even unto this day. Whether they take Muruga to be the Supreme Being, or Siva as such, they do not hold either of them as one of the Trinity but take him to be superior to all the three. According to the Saiva religion, there are many higher beings who are called ‘Rudras’ and who to all appearance look like the greatest Lord Rudra or Siva but who are, in fact, his mere servants treated as his sons on account of their nearnes to him in love and devotion. This view is countenanced even in the Rie-Veda which invokes Rudra thus: “May the healing Rudra, with the Rudras, be favourable to us”2. “May the divine Rudra with the Rudras be gracious to us”3. Consequently the Rudra in the Trinity the Saivites maintain to be none other than one of the many higher beings who bear that name but who are not, in truth, the highest Lord Rudra. The Vaishnavas of the later period held only three beings to be higher than gods and of these three they made ‘Vishnu’ the highest, ascribing to him the preservation of created beings as a special function; still they believed not in the existence of a fourth being transcending the three. And of the Vaishnava Saints who proclaimed this doctrine, Poigai Alwar was the first; others simply followed him in his track.
But, how three gods can exist instead of two; how the preservative function can be performed without having as its antecedent the creative one; how a god, whose care is to preserve the created order and who is, therefore, a dependant on the creator, can be regarded as higher than the creator; how a being who, from the nature of his office, cannot prolong it to an indefinite period while there is a destructive agent, but must necessarily succumb to him when he dissolves the worn-out matter, how such a being can be raised to a mightier position than that of Rudra-all these vital points do not seem to strike the minds of the Vaishnava saints in general. To a degree, a difficulty similar to these appears to have presented itself to the first Alwar Poigaiyar but he too made no attempt to solve it.4 The Vaishnavites merely rest their faith on the Puranic stories and question not whether they are authentic accounts or mere fabricated fictions. So powerful was the influene wielded by the brahmin priests over the minds of the pious Tamils by means of such myths and so firm is the hold they still continue to have on the minds of even educated people.
But in the case of Poigaialwar, we may make a grand exception. He seems to have had such a clear mental vision at times that it enabled him to penetrate to the deep mystery which underlay the original conception formed of God by the Tamils of the Tholkappiam age, and he even yearned to go back to it. In a significant stanza.5 he plainly tells us the fact that there exist not three but only two supreme principles inseparably united, one the red-coloured being Rudra and the other the blue- coloured being Narayana. Nevertheless, he was wavering between the original conception of God and the later Puranic phantasy, for a long time it appears, but finally after having had a true spiritual experience, perhaps not without a great and hard struggle, he settled down to the original conception and ended by adoring only the two Supreme principles hte red and the blue.6
We have already seen that creation proceeds from an appropriate combination of not three but only of two principles, the fiery and the watery; and the created worlds can endure so long only as these two elements maintain their balance; but when the time approaches in which one element outweighs the other, the destructive action begins to set in. A careful insight into the forces of nature and their workings cannot fail to show that it is fire and not water that brings about the ultimate destruction of all including water also. To keep in harmony the two blind and inanimate forces, the activity of two spiritual and all intelligent forces of similar character is neessarily required as pointed out before. Hence it follows as a momentous conclusion that there can exist in reality not more than the spiritual heat principle Rudra and the cold principle Uma or Narayana, a third thing being unimaginable and unscientific. As we have seen these two Supreme principles together performing the creative, the preservative, and the destructive functions, it is against all reason and science to uphold an independent third principle either to direct or to control the function of preservation. Further, preservation is not a separate function, ut is involved in the creative, it being nothing more than the mere continuation of the creative process, so to speak. For, is it not, a fact that at every moment and every second as old cells in our body die out, newer ones come to fill up their place, as old particles of dust fly through the air newer particles fall down and accumulate on the earth? Is not preservation a mere displacement and replacement of matter that is continually going on in cycles? If the creative action could come to a stop, that is, if things were not re-created every time that they break up, the preservative function cannot outlast but must disappear along with it leaving the destructive process to begin its work immediately and carry it out irresistibly, There are, therefore, only two functions in reality and only two Supreme principles Siva and Uma that perform these two functions conjointly.

Footnotes
1. 	Paripadal, 8, and Thirumuruktruppadai, 11-148-176.
2. 	“Sam no Rudro Rudrebhir jalashah” vii,35,6,
3. 	“Rudro Rudrebhir devo mrilayati” x, 66,3, 
4. 	See his Centenary poem, stanza 69,
5. 	Ibid, 5.
6. 	Ibid, 97.

CHAPTER X
PERSONAL STATEMENTS OF TAMIL SAINTS
So far our inquiry based on solid scientific facts has led us to confirm the truth of what our Seers, Saints and Sages, from ancient times down to our own, have perceived and proclaimed as regards the nature of the Supreme Soul. Now, it may be asked whether there is any authentic personal record of any seer who declared that he saw God face to face and that the God he saw was composed of a double personality, one a red-coloured male and the other a blue-coloured female. In answer to this, I may say at once that, though I have not met with any record of high antiquity which enshrines the personal statements of any ancient seer, yet when we approach the mediaeval period of Tamil literature, which begins from the third century A.D. and ends with the eighth, we do obtain a number of inestimable lyric poems as authentic documents in which the Saints have plainly declared the wonderful experience they have had with a personal God. As a matter of fact almost all the personal outpourings of very ancient Saints have perished, leaving the spiritual truth to be preserved and told in the works of the later Saints who came in succession in the medieval ages. That is why in all the oldest documents that have come down to as, we find ancient gods and goddesses mentioned not by the seer himself but by those who came to worship them in subsequent periods. For instance; in the antique Egyptian records, the great sun - god Osiris is represented to have the goddess Isis as his wife; in the Chaldaean, the god Ea to have Dav-kina as his consort, and the sun-god Tammuz to have Istar; in the Phoenician the principal divinity Baal to have Ashtoreth; in the Grecian, Zeus to have Hera; in the Roman, Jupiter to have Juno; in the Teuton, Woden to have Frigga; and in the Peruvian the sun-god Inti to have the moon as his wife. Again in the very first chapter of Genesis the first book in the Bible, it is stated thus; “And God said, ‘Let us make man in our image, after our likeness,’ So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them,” By the way, I wish to draw attention to the words uttered by God in the above quotation; the words denoting God being in the first person plural as ‘us’ and ‘our,’ whereas in the subsequent verses in which God addresses man, the words are in the first person singular, as “I have given you every herb-bearing seed.” etc. This difference, it must be noted, is very significant, since ‘us’ and ‘our’ express God’s will as including in it the will of his divine consort, to produce human beings in the forms of male and female like himself and his better half, while ‘I’ in the following passages represents him simply as exercising his authority singly over man. Although all the ancient religious writings speak of God in the terms of male and female, we do not meet with a single one in them which contains the bold declaration of seer in the first person-the declaration; “I saw God, and it was twofold; father and mother in one indivisible whole.”  For want of such an honest, sincere, bold personal affirmation, the world, except southern India, has not only lost the invaluable treasure of Divine truth that might have accrued to it, if it had realized this ultimate fact, but even went to the length of ridiculing the Fatherhood and Motherhood of God and dared to treat it as a mere anthropomorphic myth. It should never be forgotten that it was not man that created God in his image but it was God himself that made man after the pattern of His gracious spiritual image. Although man cannot create God’s most glorious form dazzling with brilliant beauty, yet he can disfigure it as when he struggles to bring it before his mental and physical eyes, by investing it with such appendages as his ugly and mistaken notions of beauty, adornments and decorations put upon it. Of the quaint notions entertained by him of God’s spiritual nature and functions, the grotesque images and idols he has set up all over the world as their visible and tangible representations still stand as clear and indiputable witnesses. Only so much can man make and only so much, if you like, may you call anthropomorphism. But, of the transcendent beauty of God’s spiritual image, ordinary man can form no idea, although the few chosen seers to whom it was given to perceive it can form a correct notion of the personality of God. Had there been one Saint who had not only seen God but had also proved the fact of it at every turn of his miraculous life, as well as in the lyrical utterances he poured extempore while he was on earth, we can then easily bring ourselves to form in our mind the true spiritual image of God and not otherwise. But, for one true account of a vision seen and proclaimed by a few real Saints, thousands of false accounts touching the personality of God came to be fabricated by self-interested persons and made to eclipse the true account of the glory of the true God and his resplendent person. As matters stand, the task of disentangling what is true like a gem from the heap of falsities has become a very hard work for us. Ever since the opening of the Christian era, romantic stories and religious myths streamed into the south not only from the ritualistic Brahmanism but also from the nihilistic Buddhism and Jainism. Even poets of rare genius and scholars of profound learning such as Ilangovadikal and Satthanar allowed their minds to be swayed to a certain extent by the people’s credulity which had been very much captivated by the Puranic myths newly introduced. Yet they lost not wholly their characteristic critical acumen to discern the deep-lying truth and bring it out at times from the overs-lying heap of falsehood. If such had been the case even with the highly cultured Tamils, what the conditon of the less enlightened and illiterate people could be under the new magical influence of northern priests might be better imagined than described.

CHAPTER XI
ST. MANICKAVACHAKAR
In the third century of the Christian era, the people of the Tamil country came so low down to the point of ignoring the real and most valuable conception of the Godhead-the conception of its Fatherhood and Motherhood, just then quite opportunely St.Manickavachakar appeared on the scene, pointed out the momentous fact and saved not only the Tamils but the whole of mankind also, from the clutch of rank ignorance and gross misconceptions. Manickavachakar was an young man of vast and deep learning and was employed as the prime minister to the then Pandian king in Madura. He says that while he was passing through all kinds of worldly experience and enjoying all kinds of pleasure, his heart was all along leaping forward to sound the deepest mystery that underlies the existence of both the animate and inanimate worlds, and was yearning to yield to it his very humble self as an offering, if he could only find it out. He panted after it, he cried incessantly aloud and wept for it but he could not find it; his heart failed at the thought whether he would be left helpless and he deemed his very existence quite intolerable. While he was in this pining mood, the Pandian king sent him on to purchase horses with which he might replenish his army for purposes of war. Accordingly he went on his journey and, while he was nearing Thirupperundurai, then a sea-coast town in the ancient Chola kingdom, the conversion of his soul came over him all on a sudden; for, God appeared to him under the shade of a kurunda tree, placed His holy feet on his head, and made him His devotee, Forthwith, the young prime minister came to be transformed into a new being altogether. God’s grace and bliss ineffable filled his soul, mind and body so much that he could not bear this earth-bound existence but yearned to burst it out and rest peacefully under the sacred feet of his Lord. In this state of mind he gave expression to his pious feelings in Tamil lyrics which, for their pathetic melody and passionate devotion, for sublime spiritual truths and overflowing religious sentiments are inimitable and unsurpassable by any of their kind in any language. Almost in every one of them he glorifies Lord Siva for His having come down to him so easily and extended to him His great grace and mercy which could not be obtained even by the celestials. These Tamil lyrics called ‘The Thiruvachakam’ or ‘The Sacred Utterances’ have, after a thirty years preparation, been translated into English verse by Dr. G.U.Pope, a veteran Tamil scholar and a pious Christian missionary; still the hand of a Milton or a Shelley alone can be expected to do full justice to a poetic rendering of these fervent and devout outpourings. From a careful and critical study of this Tamil Saint’s poems, we get glimpes into his real life; and we can even construct a faithful biography of him, by picking up from them all the incidental references to his life and stringing them up together.1 In many places of his poems the Saint plainly and repeatedly avers that God came to him in person and made him His vassal. I select three of them most important for our purpose and give their English rendering as follows:
	“With Her that hath eyes gleaming fine with jet
	  Thou camest and me madest Thy slave;
	  Thenceforward I of thee thought not as beyond my 											reach;
	  But I took Thee to be as easy of access as a golden cup
  	  In the hands of a little child.” 
				           (Thiruchchathakam,92).
  	“The primal source, the middle, and the end hadst Thou 			been,
         Thee the Three could not know; who else can know 			            Thee?
	  Thy spouse and Thee did visit the worn-out huts
 	  Of Thy slaves; O Supernal one! To me Thou camest
	  And showedest me Thy sacred form that glows like 						red-hot embers,
  Thou showedest me also the templeat Thirupperundurai
	   As well as Thy benignant person;
		Thy servant Thou mad’st me Ambrosia ! rare”
					 	(Thiruppalli eluchchi,8).
	  “On one side it has fresh water-lilies blue
	    On the other it has new lotus flowers red;
	    On the side flock the birds,
			On the other murmur the ripples,
			Their dirt to wash off many go to it
			So that this bubbling pond looks like our 
			Lady and our Lord” 	  
							(Thiruvembavai, 13).
In these three verses St. Manickavachakar has sung quite incidentally and not with any set purpose, bear in mind, stating the fact that Lord Siva with his spouse Uma appeared before him and made him His servant, and that the person of Siva was glowing then with a brilliant red while that of Uma was gleaming with a light blue hue. It is indeed true that a century before Manickavachakar, the poet Perundevanar ascribed red colour to the person of Siva and blue to that of Uma in the invocatory stanzas which he prefixed to some of the eight collections of classical Tamil poems, but that never even once did he hint us that he had himself ever caught sight of God and the double aspects of his personality That goes to prove that he was merely describing the double-coloured personality of the Godhead instrict conformity with the then prevalent tradition and nothing more. But quite different is the case of our St. Manickavachakar; for, his statement does not so depend on mere religious tradition, but is firmly grounded in his direct personal spiritual experience alone. His lyrics, informed not only with deep religious fervour but also with sublime literary grace and insatiable sweetness both in style and sentiments, his sanity of judgment and noble reasoning powers exhibited as well in his literary productions as in his disputations with the Buddhists, invest his mind with a strength and lucidity that leave little room for any doubt as regards the soundness of his spiritual experience. St. Manickavachakar gave a death-blow to the nihilisti Buddhism and re-established the original theistic conception of God, that is, the conception relating to the Fatherhood and Motherhood of the Godhead on the strong basis of scientific fact discovered by his direct, clear and sound spiritual insight.
The Saints who came after him from the fourth century onwards; namely Thirumoolar, Appar, Thirujnanasambandhar, and Sundarar, have been all perfect seers who have had such a direct, distinct and true mental perception of the Godhead that there is not a tittle in their hymns which comes into conflict with the spiritual experience of St.Manickavachakar, but all is in entire harmony with his view of Divine nature. All of them unequivocally declare that they saw God not in dream but while they were fully awake and aver with perfet confidence that what they saw consisted of a red male principle and a blue female principle, in other words; the Divine Father Rudra and Mother Uma.  
Footnotes
1. 	This I have done in my Tamil work ‘The Life and  Times of St.Manickavachakar.’

CHAPTER XII
ST.THIRUJNANA SAMBANDHA
If there be still any lingering scepticism on this supreme point, that may be finally removed by making a deep study of the life and hymns of St. Thirujnanasambandha who existed in the first half of the seventh century A.D. This unique personality constitutes the greatest wonder that the world has ever seen. For, while Johm Stuart Mill was grappling in his third year with his Greek lessons, and John Ruskin was in like manner scribbling verses in the third year of his life, just in the very same third year of his childhood St. Thirujnanasambandha became a master not only of his mother-tongue Tamil, but even of the vast and extensive Vedic literature in Sanscrit and poured forth his thoughts extempore in hymns after hymns in glorification of Lord Siva and mother Uma.
In this connection I venture to affirm that I am speaking under no deluded state of mind but I am stating the fact in a solemn and sane mental mood permeated by a historic sense grounded on solid and substantial genuine literary records of the past. For a study of our saintly child, I do not rest my belief entirely on what is written by his biographer St.Sekkilar, although he is the only hagiographer in the mediaeval period who is supported by recent archaeological evidence. Our Saint’s own lyrics which are in all three hundred and eighty four in number, each consisting of eleven stanzas, as well as the hymns composed by his contemporary St. Appar and his immediate successors St. Sundarar and St. Nambiandar Nambi, constitute the fertile authentic sources from which we derive almost a complete account of his life. It is also remarkable that that which is satisfactorily and conclusively proved in the religious and literary history of South India by co-ordianted literay and epigraphic evidences is the great fact pertaining to the date of this celebrated St. Thirujnanasambandha. And it is this date that stands as a beacon light serving to light up the preceding centuries that had hitherto lain dark for want of a reliable date in the history of the mediaeval ages that have elapsed in this part of our country.
Here it is not my intention to enter into any detailed treatment of his life beyond what is pertinent to our subject. His conversion came on in this wise; in his third year, the child followed his father who, being very pious, went to the sacred tank in the Siva temple at Seerkali which was the birth-place of the saint, in order to perform his ablutions. Leaving the child on the bank, the father went down the steps, sank into the water and remained a few minutes within, for practising the retention of breath in meditation. Not seeing his father, the child began to cry, but lo! the Heavenly Father and Mother appeared before him and gave him milk in a golden cup. Whilst the child was engaged in sipping the milk, his father, having finished his ablutions, came up and saw the child sipping milk from a cup held in his hand. The father being an orthodox brahmin, rebuked the child for having taken the milk given by some unclean hands, but behold! our little lord opened his sweet little mouth and sang extempore in Tamil a splendid hymn of eleven verses pointing out to him the Mother and Father who gave him milk. From this time until he disappeared in the light of God that appeared to him in his teens, he was incessantly visiting temple after temple and warbling hymn after hymn in praise of Lord Siva and Uma.
Whether he actually saw God when he was but an innocent child only three years old, whether he sang the glory of Lord in flawless lyrics are questions of paramount importance in his life which require to be settled, before attaching any value to the vision he had of God. For, during the period of childhood, all the latent faculties of the human mind come into play only one after another slowly and gradually as days and months roll on as it grows. In its earlier days the child knows not what the world is; neither has it sufficient memory power to call to mind what it saw and heard, nor sufficient imaginative power to connect the different disjunctive ideas produced by words and objects and make up from them consistent, permanent and vivid mental pictures, nor has it again sufficient expressive power to exhibit these pictures in highly finished poems. Still, if it can be proved that a superhuman exception to this general psychological law of mental evolution, showed itself in the life and work of a human child, then that child cannot be taken to be a mere human offspring, but must be regarded as some superhuman being that appeared as the receptacle of the grace and inspiration of the almighty God of the universe to bestow it on the humanity. After this has been proved, we can no more entertain any doubt as regards the divine nature of that child’s sacred mission and message. 
I have already mentioned that St.Thirujnananasambandha sang many hymns in Tamil which fortunately for us survive in a well-preserved form up to this day, although one thousand and three hundred years have elapsed since his disappearance from this earth. All his hymns were composed extempore, not with any other intent than that of glorifying Lord Siva and Uma. Rarely does he refer in them to any incidents of his life, and where he does it, he does so merely by chance in order to bring into greater relief not the events of his own life but only the graciousness of his Lord who manifested himself in his personal and intimate relation to the events of his very devoted life. From a study of his hymns, one can quite clearly understand that, in alluding to these incidents of his life, he was possessed with no any set purpose to record them in his poems but that his piety it was which made him feel deeply, fervently and gratefully the divine grace so easily and personally shown him by his Lord and led him to give utterance to such feelings in inimitable songs. Even a rank and uncompromising atheist cannot but admit this fact from a patient study of his lyrics, that is to say, he cannot but take the incidents as so many real historical events that occurred in his short earthly career. Almost all these allusions to the events of his life may be ratified by a comparative study of what his contemporary St. Appar and his immediate successor St. Sundarar likewise relate of him incidentally in their solemn, sacred and glorious hymns composed similarly in praise of Lord Siva; still this is not the occasion for giving an extensive treatment to all such matters and so let us confine our attention to a consideration of a few points gleaned   from what our saintly child himself says about himself.
I told you just now that Thirujnanasambandha was given milk by the Heavenly Father and Mother who appeared before him while he was standing and crying on the bank if the temple-tank at Seerkali and that when his father came up the tank and reproved him for taking milk given by unclean bands he broke out in a hymn and pointed out to him the parents who gave him milk and who were just vanishing from hi sight. From that time forward the child became not only a wonder of his own age but that of other ages to come. Nevertheless the child himself viewed with no wonder the miraculous occurrences of his life, for he deemed that to God nothing was impossible. On the other hand he became enraptured with so much love for the Divine Parents that all his thoughts centred on their gracious person, that he could rest no more without thinking of them, without feeling their sweet love for him, without giving expression to his love and gratitude for them in innumerable lyrical songs. Since he was blessed with the ision of his Lord Siva and mother Uma in a Siva temple, he became possessed with an ardent longing to visit every Siva temple all over the country, in the hope of meeting his Heavely Parents therein again and again and of finding an opportunity anywhere there to get himself permanently united to them. To this wish of his, he child’s earthly father readily acceded and carried him on his nape to a number of Siva temples for some time, until a palanquin set with pearls was sent to him by God in a mysterious manner. In a hymn he composed extempore at the Siva temple in Thirunanipalli when he was thus carried there, he distinctly says that he sang the hymn just as he was sitting on the nape of his father.1 I need hardly say that on the nape of a man no one-even a grown-up boy, can sit comfortably both to himself and his bearer, except a small child below four years.
I will give one more reference taken from his hymns to his having been only three years old when he saw God. When our Saint visited the Siva temple at Madura in response to the invitation of the Pandian queen, he stayed there for some time. At the instigation of the Jain priests who were at that period the bitterest enemies to the adherents of the Saiva religion, the king Kunpandian being then a convert to the Jain religion, secretly agreed and permitted the Jain priests to set fire to the hermitage in which St.Janasambandha and his numerous followers were lodged. In the dead of night the cruel deed was done, and when the whole hermitage was on fire, our Saint knowing in an instant who was the cause of it, implored in a pathetic hymn the mercy of his Lord to save them all and send back the fire in a mild form to the king himself. Immediately the fire disappeared but the king suddenly got a burning fever. The whole palace was astir; the Jain priests who were experts in the healing art were summoned, and all sorts of remedial measures were resorted to but all proved of no avail. At last, the queen who was a devout Saivite suggested that Thirujnanasambandha might be requested to try. Accordingly at day-break the saint was invited to the palace. On seeing him on a seat near the bedstead of the king, the Jain priests, who were assembled there, began to speak ill of him and even taunted him. It was very painful for the queen who stood by to see the little and innocent saintly child thus loaded with reproaches and she was about to raise her voice in his defece when, with an undaunted and marvellous courage-marvellous on the part of a little child, he addressed her in a beautiful hymn, the first stanza of which may be rendered in English thus:
“O mother thou that hast fawn-like eyes! O Thou, the chief
		and great spouse of the Pandian king,
  Hear me and grieve not that I who am here
		a mere infant sipping milk by lovely lips;
 		As Siva of the sacred Alavai is my guard
		am no inferior to these ill-bred
		Who live in spots as Anaimamalai
		in the midst of untold woes.”1
In this stanza the occasion makes our little lord refer to his being at the time a young child fed purely on milk. So much clear and incidental reference in his own lyrics constitutes an internal evidence which proves unquestionably the fact of his having been a mere child on the occasions which called forth the composition of those lyrics. Now let us see whether there is any more evidence to testify to the direct vision he had of God when he was a little child.
It seems that the love he cherised in his heart for his Heavenly Parents who came and gave him milk so very easily and graciously, made the thought of it stand uppermost in his mind while he was in Madura and prompted
	மானின் நேர்விழிமாதராய் வழுதிக்கு மாபெருந் தேவிகேள்
	 பானல்வாய் ஒருபாலன் ஈங்கிவன் என்றுநீ பரிவெய்திடேல்,
	 ஆனைமாமலை யாதியாய இடங்களிற் பல அல்லல்சேர்
	 ஈனர்கட் நெளியேன் அலேன் திருஆலவாய் அரன் நிற்கவே

him to glorify that act of grace in a fine hymn which is also remarkable for showing his complete reliance upon God. The second stanza of the hymn specially commemorates that most important incident as follows:
	“He, who made me his servant by presenting into my hands
	Milk in a lotus-shaped golden cup, so that my father
	Believing it to be unclean did fret; with modest Her abode
	In Kalumalam He the great Lord having rings in ears.”1
Does not this explicit reference to his conversion from the moment he received milk from the hands of his Heavenly Parents establish beyond doubt the fact of his having seen God while he was yet an young child only three years old? In addition to this, the flawless, pure, chaste, dignified Tamil lyrics which he poured forth in profusion, the series of miracles which he wrought every now and then and which culminated in the raising up of a maiden in Mylapore from the ashes to which she was reduced by a snake-bite, his successful disputations with the Jains and the Buddhists-all these, as resulting from the divine grace and power which filled him beyond measure, point him out as a unique personality that came with a special mission to reveal the real nature of the true God and save humanity from worshipping false God and multiplying thereby the births and deaths endlessly. In the whole range of the world’s  
	போதையார் பொற்கிண்ணத்து அடிசில் பொல்லாதெனத்
	 தாதையார் முனிவுஉறத் தான்எனை ஆண்டவன்,
	 காதையார் குழையினன் கழுமல வளநகர்ப்
	 பேதையாளவளொடும் பெருந்தகை இருந்ததே

religious history you cannot find another Saint who, like Jnanasambandha, saw God in his third year, who wrought miracles like him simply to vindicate the ways of the true God, and who told as the direct vision he had of God in his own poetic compositions bequeathed to us as invaluable and imperishable records of a genuine historical personage. There may be-nay there are, stories fabricated by religious sects and fanatics with an intent to raise their favourite teachers and priests to the level of St.Thirujnanasambandha, nay even superior to him, but a careful and impartial examination of such tables will show you that they could be nothing more than mere fables. In their own sayings or writings they had left us, you would find them to betray their commonplace character and in a few instances to rise no more than persons of average mental capacity. So far as my knowledge of certain teachers of world-religions is concerned, I venture to say that there is not any substantial evidence in their sayings handed down to us by their disciples, much less in their writings which are unfortunately very scarce, that would warrant as in believing them to have had a direct vision of God. Be it far from me to make any invidious comparison between one religious teacher and the other from any motive other than good. To ascertain the intrinsic value of an object of thought, comparison is most necessary; yet, I am not going to enter upon that difficult, in a way even delicate, task, but leave it to those who have the necessary ardour, patience and intelligence to accomplish it as an interesting and useful labour of love. I merely suggest here that an unbiassed comparison may be instituted between St. Thirujnanasambandha and other religious teachers with a view to discern which of them will come out from it to show us the real God and send us along the path that will lead us direct to his kingdom of righteousness and love.
	Suffice it for our present purpose to say that the evidence supplied by the life and writings of St.Thirujnanasambandha possesses a value unique in the religious history of the world, since it infuses new life into the almost dying original conception of God held by ancient seers and handed down to us by their successive lines of disciples in the oldest works both in Tamil and Sanscrit, and as such that it should, on no account, be overlooked by earnest seekers after truth and the true God, if they care to be saved. Unless we worship the true God that created us, unless we have a right conception of him as a vital element of that worship, unless we secure his grace as the strongest vessel that would carry us through the ocean of births and deaths in the midst of stormy cares and miseries, how can we hope to reach him safe? We may build up theory upon theory, we may create Go after God as suits our fancy and may even dare to call ourselves God, but all these will not avail to lead us to our real Heavenly Father who alone can save us by put

			INDIANS INNRANT OF THEIR
MOTHER TONGUES (MOSTLY ILLITERATES)
As has been pointed out already, the whole of South India is inhabited mostly by Tamil speaking people.  Though these people from their birth have been speaking the Tamil tongue and living the Tamil way of life, most of them know not to write flawless Tamil  books avalilable. They do not entertain the least wich to tead them, even out of a love for their mother tongue.
During the British regime, not much importance was given to a study of the regional languages of India.  Only  English was given the place of precedence, as the language of the rulers and as the gateway to a career and to a knowledge of world literature and science.  In consequence not only possessed poor knowledge of their mother tongue but also proved of no use to the large masses of illiterate people of their land. Only after the attainment of Independence for India, some attempt is made to give preference to the study and development of the regional languages.  But in an aggressive way, Hindi is attempted to be installed in the place of English, as the Lingua France of India.

HINDI IS AS ALIEN AS ENGLISH TO
NON-HINDI SPEAKING PEOPLE OF INDIA
By the adoption of Hindi as the common tongue, what good will accrue to the non-Hindi speaking people of India, who are mostly illiterate and to whom Hindi will be as aline as English?
So if there be true platriots in the land, they should work for the study and development of the regional languages with a view to make all people proficient and learned in their respective language.
Some lpeople claim that since Hindi is being spoken by a major portion of the Indian lpopulation, Hindi alone would seem to hold out, as commom tongue of India, the brilliant prosect of bringing all the diverse people of India together unifying them for any undertaking for their commonm welfare.
It is our duty ot poiny out in this connection that Hindi is not the nommon tongue of even the northerners.  Hindi is spoken in varied ways in different places of Northe India The Hindi spoken by people in one part of North India is not understood by Hindi-speaking people of other parts of the same North India.  This will be eident from the following : 
Hindi research scholars have classified Hindi into three broad divisions i.e. Western Hindi, Eastern Hindi and Bihari, each haveing a different parentage,  The language spoken in the plateau west of the river Ganges and southeast of Punjab is called Bangaru; that spoken in the south of the places between the river Ganges and the river Yamuma is Kanouj; that in vogue in Panthalkand and places adjoining the Narmada river is Bandeli; and that sopken in Delhi and its suburbs is Urdu.  These five languages or dialects spoken in the north-west of India go by the common name of western Hindi.
Those coming under the category of East Hindi are : Avadhi, Bakeli, AND 
