





















கோதை நாச்சியார் தாலாட்டு, ஆங்கில மொழிபெயர்ப்பு,
கௌசல்யா ஹார்ட், kOtai nAcciyAr tAlaTTu, English Translation by Kausalya Hart  (in unicode UTF-8 format)










கோதை நாச்சியார் தாலாட்டு 

ஆங்கில மொழிபெயர்ப்பு   
கௌசல்யா ஹார்ட் 



kOtai nAcciyAr tAlaTTu, 
English translation

by Dr. Kausalya Hart 

In Tamil script, unicode/utf-8 format




 Acknowledgements: 

We thank Dr. Kausalya Hart for providing a soft copy of this translation and for the permissions 

to include this work as part of Project Madurai collections. 

Preparation of HTML and PDF versions: Dr. K. Kalyanasundaram, Lausanne, Switzerland.




 © Project Madurai, 1998-2023.

Project Madurai is an open, voluntary, worldwide initiative devoted to preparation

of electronic texts of Tamil literary works and to distribute them free on the Internet.

Details of Project Madurai are available at the website

https://www.projectmadurai.org/

You are welcome to freely distribute this file, provided this header page is kept intact.




கோதை நாச்சியார் தாலாட்டு 

ஆங்கில மொழிபெயர்ப்பு   
கௌசல்யா ஹார்ட்  


 Source : 

கோதை நாச்சியார் தாலாட்டு

( ஆசிரியர் யார் என தெரியவில்லை)

S. வையாபுரிப் பிள்ளை உபசரித்தது 

ஆழ்வார் திரு நகரி திருஞானமுத்திரைப் பிரசுராலயம்

பதிப்பாசிரியர் பெரியன் ஸ்ரீ நிவாசன் 

1928, காப்பிரைட், விலை, 0.40 பைசா

ஸ்ரீஆனந்தவிநாயகர் அச்ச்கம், ஸ்ரீவைகுண்டம் 


https://www.projectmadurai.org/pm_etexts/utf8/pmuni0112.html 

---------------------


 

Kodainachiyar Thaalaatu

lullaby for Andal.



Worshiping God K



I bow to the two feet of the famous king Senaiyar

stays in the divine temple of Kannan in Puduvai

where dark clouds float.

I will compose a lullaby for the beautiful Kodai

so that the people of the world may sing it and praise her..



Book.



1. I worship the divine feet of Vishnuchithan in Puduvai city

and compose a lullaby that all people can sing happily for Kodai



Srirangam the divine city



2 - 5.  I worship Srirangam where Perumal abides, flourishing with palm and kamugu trees.

I bow to his feet and they are my help.



Srirangam is filled with beautiful temples and large towers.

From the tops of its hills, one can see clouds, lotus ponds and beautiful golden temples that beautify the city. 



Beautiful statues in the temple are ornamented with nine jewels

and sandalwood chariots always run on the streets.



The music that is played on the street.



6 - 7. Many rishis and Brahmins, scholars of Vedas,

sing and praise the beauty of Thirumal the god of Srirangam and his wife.



8. Poets praise Perumal, the god Manivannan, with love 

singing his praise every day.



9. Women sing and with them the conches of Achudan blow with beautiful music.



10 - 11 The sound of the veena resounds everywhere,

drums are beaten and bells ring.

These sound all over the good streets of the city

and people wander everywhere happily. 



12. The music instruments perihai, ekkalam and sekandi resound everywhere.



13. Tumpuru and Naradar play the flute

and sing in the divine temple with their beautiful voices.



14. Indra and the gods have brought fragrant flowers.

Devotees from all the eight directions have come to worship

and they sing the praise of the god, bowing to him.



15. Bees sing, peacocks dance 

and the devotees sing the praise of the god and worship him.



16. Singers who know how to sing songs with the right ragas

praise god with the Pallaandu.

The fragrance of shenbaga flowers spreads all over the god’s temple.



17. Indra and the gods sprinkle lovely flowers

and the moon and sun wave chowries.



18. Singers walk in procession reciting the Thiruvaaymozhi

in the city that is filled with tall palaces, towers and temples that are ornamented with jewels.



19. In the fields, paddy flourishes making rice abundant.

Beautiful kuvalai blossoms bloom everywhere.

Women who walk like swans sit and write love letters to their beloveds. 



20. The wind makes the sugarcane sway 

and the lotus flowers bloom in the ponds.

Bees buzz like flutes.

Peacocks open their feathers and dance.



21. Ripe mangos hang from the trees 

and monkeys jump all over the branches.

Honeycombs are filled by the bees 

and the honey spills all over.



22. Good paddy grows and the world flourishes with rice.

Sugarcane plants thrive, and kamuka trees give abundant fruit.



23. On the tops of the peaks of the mountains, cruel tigers live.

Bees see the moon and, thinking it is a ball of food, fly to reach it.



24. Three times a month rain falls. The champa paddy grows well in the rain 

and ponds are filled with water and overflow.



25. Banana trees ripen with fruits, 

jackfruit trees grow everywhere,

thaazai flowers bloom and sprinkle their petals.



26. Punnai flowers bloom and the parrots speak with each other

while swans talk, swimming in the ponds. 



27. Lovely waterfalls descending from the hills flow and fill the ponds. 

Such is honey-like Puduvai city surrounded with paddy fields.



28. South Puduvai is rich

with corals, diamonds, green emeralds and pearls.



29. There many pandals hide the sunlight

and flourishing gardens spread fragrance.



30. Coconut trees open their leaves beautifully.

Sweet sugarcane plants flourish everywhere and punnai trees touch the clouds.



The divine birth of Goda



 31. The priest, the famous Vishnuchithan, 

planted in his flower garden many fragrant thulasi and mullai plants.



32. He watered them well and grew them happily.



33. One day he heard the sound of the earth splitting open

and went to see what was happening.



34. He found a baby girl under a beautiful thulasi plant

on that Adippuram day. 



35. Vishnuchithan took the girl, beautiful as a lotus, in his arms,

and asked her, “Dear one, tell me what I can do for you?”



36. The baby said, “Father, I am your dear daughter 

and I am the blooming thulasi.”



37, Vishnuchithan heard this and was pleased.

He carried his divine child into the sacred temple.



38. He placed the girl under the golden feet

of the god Manivannan adorned with a thulasi garland.

She crawled, played and wandered around.



39. Vishnuchithan looked at Perumal and asked him,

“O god Perumal, why did I find this girl? Tell me.”



40. The god Manivannan told Vishunuchithar,

“This beautiful girl is the goddess,



41. “Name her Thirukkodai Nacciyar

and take her to your home happily.”



42. Vishnuchithan obeyed Perumal’s words,

took the beautiful girl in his arms and gave her to the foster mothers.



43. The foster mothers fed the baby milk,

put her in the cradle lovingly and raised her joyfully.



44.,45. They sang a lullaby: “O girls, listen.

Brahma sent with love this small beautiful cradle made of pure gold

studded with diamonds and rubies.

Thaaleloo thaaleloo, O girl, Thaaleloo thaaleloo.



46. “You are a pretty swan, sweet as honey,

a beautiful girl who shines like gold, 

you are a deer and a peacock.

Thaaleloo thaaleloo,



47. “You shine like gold, 

you are beautiful like a peacock in the forest,

you are a cuckoo bird in a garden,

you are a tender mango leave,

you are lightning, the light of a lamp,

and the divine Veda.

Thaaleloo thaaleloo,”



48. “You, queen among women,

were born to the childless Periyaazvar

and you are a gift to him.

Thaaleloo thaaleloo,



49. “Now no one in the world can call the foster mothers childless.”



50. They praised Kothai who was born in Puduvai city 

surrounded with flowers.



51. “You are as precious as our eyes,

you are dear,

you are the Karpaga tree in Indra’s palace,

you are sweet as clear nectar.

Beloved girl, you are a divine daughter,

you are an innocent girl.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



52. “You are beautiful as a deer,

you are a cuckoo bird,

you are a buzzing bee,

you are a star,

you are honey,

you are the sacred water used to bathe Kama.

you are clear nectar.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



53. “The gods in the sky worship you.

O emerald, you are a fine daughter

who came to remove the troubles of all.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



54. “You, a precious emerald, a bright light,

were born in a garden blooming with flowers.

Thaaleloo thaaleloo,”



55. “You, lovely child, sweet nectar, were found 

by Periyazvar in a garden of flowers

dripping with honey, swarming with bees.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



56. “You are a swan,

a deer found by Periyaazvar in Puduvai city

rich with pearls where good paddy flourishes.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.”



57. They sang this lullaby for Kothai, 

born like Sita to Azvar, the scholar of the Vedas.



58. “You are a pearl, a coral, a lovely parrot, a beautiful girl.

You are like a tender plant for Azwar,

the light of a lamp and the divine Vedas.

Thaaleloo, Thaaleloo.



59. “You are clear nectar,

you gave the flower garland

that decorates the highest god praised by all.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



60. “You, the sweet honey-like baby,

were found on the ground when you were five years old.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



61. “Lovingly, you called Periyazvar, ‘Father, father!’

You fulfilled his desire for a child.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



62. “You are an emerald,

your eyes are adorned with kohl, 

you are the daughter of the earth, 

born to Poyhai Mudal Azvar.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



63. “You, sweet nectar, have been chosen by the gods 

to be the bride for the god who measured the world.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.”



64,65. The foster mothers praised their dear daughter,

who would love Vishnu Narayanan and marry him.



66. “You are nectar born as a boon to Azwar. Thaaleloo thaalelo.”

The foster mothers placed her in a swing, singing a lullaby, their hearts melting.



67. “Your father sings the Bhagavatham and praises Vishnu.

You were born to him to fulfill his desire for a child,

O child precious as gold. Thaaleloo thaalelo.


68. “You are a dear swan born to Vishnuchithan 

of south Puduvai. Thaaleloo thaalelo.



69. “Azhvar, the good Brahmin, recites all the sastras.

You were born to him, worshiped him and made his life shine.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



70. “You, a beautiful swan, were born

to Azvar who lives in Puduvai surrounded with banana plants.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.



71. “You are the precious daughter born to the Azwar

of Puthuvai city where clouds float and sugarcane flourishes.

He sings always Tamil songs to the god Vishnu.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.” 



72. The foster mothers praised Kothai, the best of women,

who was born at an auspicious time to the Azvar who sings the Pallandu.



73. “O Kothai, you are a precious girl 

born to Azwar so his family would be happy for seven generations

and he would not suffer because he did not have a child.

Thaaleloo thaalelo.”



Kothai growing up



74. He raised Kothai happily every day.

One day Vishnuchithan made a garland with beautiful flowers.



75. Kothai took the garland made by her father,

wore it, looked at it and put it back. Then she went off to play.



76. Vishunuchithar finished all his morning prayers 

and decided to go to the temple.



77. He wanted to decorate the god with the garland

but when he took it in his hands, he saw a hair on it.



78. Thinking it might be his daughter’s hair, he showed it to her.

Finding out that it was she who had worn the garland,

he was distressed and went back to the garden.



79. He lovingly picked new flowers

made a new garland and decorated the god with it. 



80. At night god Manivannan came before Azwar and asked him,

“Today the flower garland does not have any fragrance. What happened, Azwar?”



81. Azwar folded his hands, bowed to the god and said,

“My daughter, beautiful Kodai, wore the garland I made and placed it in the basket.



82. “I put that garland away, made a new garland with beautiful flowers 

and brought it to adorn you.”



83. Manivannan heard this and was happy.

“This is marvelous, but let me tell you something.



84. “Your lovely daughter wore the garland,

looked at herself in the mirror,

took it off and placed it in the basket every day.



85. “O Azvar, that is the garland you always bring

to decorate me.



86. “From today pluck fresh flowers,

make a beautiful garland,



87. “and after Kothai has worn it in her hair,

bring it to me. Let this be known to all the world.



88. “She will be praised by songs, music and instruments

and you will be famous as the father of Kothai

who will be called Suudikoduttal.”



89. The god Manivannan said this and left.

Azvar raised his daughter happily.



90. He bathed Kothai, decorated her hair,

and smeared dark kohl on her eyes.



91. His relatives and close friends,

came to his home and asked for Kothai in marriage.



92. Holding his beautiful daughter on his lap,

Vishnuchithan gave the garland to her.



93. He told his relatives, 

‘I will give my daughter to one of your sons. 

Let him garland her happily and marry her. 

She will be his wife with him in your home.” 



94. Kothai heard the words of her father, 

thought it is good that he was speaking of her marriage, and told him, 



95. “No man from this world can be my husband.

I will marry only Azagar who saves all people

and stays on the mountain surrounded by flourishing groves.



96. “He will be my husband and no one else can marry me. 

Send people to find him.”



97. Hearing Kothai’s words, all Azvar’s relatives

searched many places for Azhagar. 



98. After the relatives of Vishnuchithan left,

he raised his wise daughter like a beautiful peacock happily.



99. Kothai decided to do a nombu for Manivannan.



100. She went to Azvar, said that she wanted to do a nombu

and told him all the things that she needed for it.



101. Pleased, Azwar listened, asked the Brahmins to do the nombu

and gave them the money for the ritual. 



102. After Azwar agreed to Kothai’s performing her nombu,

 she began, bathing every day.



103. She brought flowers every day, worshiped and praised Mayavan

and did nombu to marry him.



104. She bathed every day in the month of Markazhi

and sang Thiruppavai songs without making mistakes.



105. She played on a small drum, made a garland,

wore it and gave it to the statue of the god,

worshiping him and always thinking of him.



106. But Mayavan did not come to her, did not give her a garland,

and did not send anyone to give her news.



107. She worried and spoke to her friends,

“I don’t know what wrong I have done.

O friends with faces as lovely as the moon, tell me.”



108. Her friends told her, 

“The divine lord of Venkatam in the north 

will come with his discus and marry you in a wonderful way.”



109. Kothai was happy when her friend said this.

She sent an andril bird, a cuckoo bird or a cloud every day as a messenger.



110. Manivannan did not send her anything. 

Distressed, she thought, “The divine Venkatavan has not answered me. 

I cannot remain like this,” and she was very sad.



111. Kothai was unhappy and suffered,

and her friends went to Azwar.



112. Azwar, the devotee of Achudan,

heard what Kothai’s friends said and was worried.



113. He thought, “I should not keep my daughter Kothai

who gave me the pleasure of having a child

without getting her married. It will not be good.”



114. He selected a good day 

and went to Srirangan to worship Kannan

with his daughter on a palanquin.



115. Walking to Srirangam, he reached its boundary,



116. He took a bath in the Kaveri river in the south.

He prayed for a long time

and returned to care for his daughter.



117. He searched for her but could not find her on the palanquin. 

All the people around told him they had not see her.



118. He worried and suffered in his heart

wondering who could have taken his daughter.

He looked for her everywhere

and entered the divine temple of Srirangam.



119. He spoke to lovely-eyed Perumal,

“You are the Mayan who measured the world.

I have only one daughter. You have taken her and hidden her.”



120. The god of Srirangam, feeling compassion,

went near Vishnuchithan and bowed to him.



121. Kothai who was there came, leaving the feet of Manivannan,

and worshiped the divine feet of Vishnuchithan.



122. Vishnuchithan happily blessed his daughter 

and Manivannan the god of Srirangam.



123. He praised Kothai and Manivannan and blessed them.

He told his daughter, “Marry the beautiful god who sleeps on the ocean.”



124. He happily said to the god Rangan 

“You are my son-in-law. Come and marry my daughter.”



125. They were married on Purnima day

in the month of Punguni under the star Utthira

and planted some seeds in pots.



126. He happily invited the god Rangan and beautiful Kothai

to come to his home.



127. Azvar told Rangan,

“I am going and will come back with your beautiful daughter

adorned with flowers in her hair.”



128. Azvar went to Srivilliputhur and stayed in his palace.



129- 130. He sent messages to people all over world, writing,

“I am going to celebrate a beautiful marriage for my daughter.

Come to the wedding hall and celebrate the wedding.”



131 to 144. Description of decorations for Kothai’s wedding.



The sticks for the wedding pandal were made of sugarcane.

The pandal was made of karpagam

and banana leaves tied in between sugarcane stalks.



Lotus flowers were hung 

and the pandal was made of various flowers.



Mango, jackfruit, and other sweet fruits were hung

and decorated the hall.



Various drums were beaten.

Kaalam and nadaswaram made music.



The gods sprinkled flowers from the sky, 

and came down to worship the couple.

Forest people brought flowers, and worshiped the gods.



Indra sprinkled flowers in all the directions.

The moon and the sun fanned the couple with chowries.



The seats were made of diamonds and precious rugs were spread

in the beautiful mandapam

and the verandas were made of pure gold.



The priests performed worship with sacred grass

and recited the Vedas.



The place was decorated with purana kumbam and golden pots,

while Brahmins recited all the four Vedas.



Perumal arrives



144. All the people and Azvar waited

for the divine Perumal to come. He was late.



145. After crossing a hot forest Rangan arrived in Srivilliputhur.

Conches were blown when he came.



146. The bridegroom sat in the wedding hall

and was married to Kothai at an auspicious time.

Then he gave many gifts to the  Brahmins.



147. Perumal gave them clothes, jewels and milch cows.



148. The women of the palace gave beautiful Kothai new clothes,

and Indrani adorned her with a wedding garland.



149. Drums were beaten, beautiful conches were blown.

strings of pearls were hung and the pandal was decorated with corals. 



150. Perumal, holding Kothai’s hands,

walked around the fire with her.



151. Azvar poured sacred water on the bride and groom’s hands,

giving his daughter to Perumal.



152 - 158. The marriage was celebrated well.

All were happy and gave sweets and precious things.



153 to 158.

After the fire ceremony was finished

all the people sprinkled rice.

The Brahmins recited mantras and all the Vedas.



They spread naanal grass around, 

performed homams, and everywhere flowers were sprinkled.



Perumal gave coins to the Brahmins as gifts.



After the bride and the groom went around the fire 

they came to their palace. 



159. Narayanan is the help for this birth and all 

the fourteen births for everyone.



160. She put her feet on the grinding stone 

and looked at the star Arundadi.



161- 163. Holding his hand,

she walked on the rice at the entrance of the house



The Brahmins threw rice as they entered their bedroom.

She gave her husband betal leaves and nuts and he joined her on the beautiful bed.



164 -166. Azwar heard about all these things and was happy.

He thought such a beautiful marriage had never happened anywhere.

He was happy with Kannan and praised him, saying, “May Kannan live long.”

Then he sang Mangalam, describing the beauty of Perumal’s discus and praising him. 



167 - 168. May the Brahmins of Puduvai city prosper.

May the god whose color is like the ocean’s and Azwar prosper.

May all women prosper.

May all temples prosper.

May women like Seetha prosper. 

May all people in the world live happily.




 Kothai Nachiyar Thalattu ends.
 

--------------


 
கோதை நாச்சியார் தாலாட்டு 

( ஆசிரியர் யார் என தெரியவில்லை) 
 




 காப்பு 

சீரார்ந்த கோதையின்மேற் சிறப்பாகத் தாலாட்டப்

பாரோர் புகழநிதம் பாடவே வேணுமென்று

"காரூர்ந்த தென்புதுவைக் கண்ணன் திருக்கோயில்

ஏரார்ந்த சேனையர்கோன்" இணையடியுங் காப்பாமே.






 நூல்  

தென்புதுவை விஷ்ணுசித்தன் திருவடியை நான்தொழுது

இன்பமுடன் தாலாட்டு இசையுடனே யான்கூறத்               1



தெங்கமுகு மாலானைச் சிறந்தோங்கும் "ஸ்ரீ ரங்கம்

நம் பெருமாள்" பாதம் நமக்கே துணையாமே.                2



சீரார்ந்த கோயில்களும் சிறப்பாகக் கோபுரமும்

காரார்ந்த மேடைகளும் கஞ்சமலர் வாவிகளும்           3



மின்னார் மணிமகுடம் விளங்க அலங்க்ருதமாய்ப்

பொன்னாலே தான்செய்த பொற்கோயில் தன்னழகும்           4



கோபுரத்து உன்னிதமும் கொடுங்கை நவமணியும்

தார்புரத் தரசிலையும் சந்தனத் திருத்தேரும்           5



ஆரார் தலத்தழகும் அம்மறையோர் மால்திரமும்

சீரார் தனத்தழகும் சிறப்பான உத்ஸவமும்           6



வேத மறையோரும் மேன்மைத் தலத்தோரும்

கீத முறையாலே கீர்த்தனங்கள் தான்முழங்க           7



பாவலர்கள் பாமாலை பாடி மணிவண்ணன்

ஆவலாய்ப் போற்றி அனுதினமும் தான்துதிக்கக்           8



கச்சுமுலை மாதர் கவிகள் பலபாட

அச்சுதனர் சங்கம் அழகால் தொனிவிளங்க           9



தித்தியுடன் வீணை சகமுழுதுந் தான்கேட்க

மத்தளமுங் கைமணியும் அந்தத் தவிலுடனே           10



உத்தமர் வீதி உலாவியே தான் விளங்கப்

......................................................................           11



பேரிகையும் எக்காளம் பின்பு செகண்டிமுதல்

பூரிகை நாதம் பூலோகம் தான்முழங்கத்           12



தும்புருவும் நாரதரும் துய்யகுழ லெடுத்துச்

செம்பவள வாயால் திருக்கோயில் தான்பாட           13



அண்டர்கள் புரந்திரனும் அழகு மலரெடுத்துத்

தொண்டர்களும் எண்டிசையுந் தொழுது பணிந்தேத்த           14



வண்டுகளும் பாட மயிலினங்கள் தான்பாடத்

தொண்டர்களும் பாடத் தொழுது பணிந்தேத்த           15



பண்பகரும் பாவலர்கள் பல்லாண் டிசைபாட

செண்பகப்பூ வாசனைகள் திருக்கோயில் தான்வீச           16



இந்திரனும் இமையோரும் இலங்கும் மலர்தூவச்

சந்திரனும் சூரியனுஞ் சாமரங்கள் தான்போடக்           17



குன்றுமணி மாடங்கள் கோபுரங்கள் தான்துலங்கச்

சென்றுநெடு வீதியிலே திருவாய் மொழி விளங்க           18



அன்னம் நடைபயில் அரிவையர் மடலெழுதச்

சென்னல் குலைசொரியச் செங்குவளை தான்மலரக்           19



கரும்பு கலகலெனக் கஞ்ச மலர்விரிக்கக்

கரும்பு குழலூதத் தோகை மயில்விரிக்க           20



மாங்கனிகள் தூங்க மந்தி குதிகொள்ளத்

தேன்கூடு விம்மிச் செழித்து வழிந்தோடச்           21



சென்னல் விளையச் செகமுழுதும் தான்செழிக்கக்

கன்னல் விளையக் கமுகமரம் தான்பழுக்க           22



வெம்புலிகள் வாழும் மேரு சிகரத்தில்

அம்புலிகைக் கவளமென்று தும்பி வழிபறிக்கும்           23



மும்மாரி பெய்து முழுச் சம்பாத் தான்விளையக்

கம்மாய்கள் தான்பெருகிக் கவிந்து வழிந்தோட           24



வாழையிடை பழுத்து வருக்கைப் பிலாபழுத்துத்

தாழையும் பூத்துத் தலையாலே தான்சொரியப்           25



புன்னையும் பூக்கப் புறத்தே கிளிகூவ

அன்னமும் பேசும் அழகான தென்புதுவை           26



தலையருவி பாயும் தடஞ்சூழ்ந்த முக்குளமும்

மலையருவி பாயும் வயல் சூழ்ந்த தென்புதுவைப்           27



பவளமுடன் வச்சிரம் பச்சை மரகதமும்

தவளமொளி முத்துத் தான்கொழிக்கும் தென்புதுவைக்           28



காவணங்கள் மேவிக் கதிரோன் தனைமறைக்கும்

பூவணங்கள் சூழ்ந்து புதுவை மணங்கமழும்           29



தென்னை மடல்விரியச் செங்கரும்பு முத்தீனப்

புன்னை முகிள்விரியப் புதுவை வனந்தனிலே           30

--------------

திரு அவதாரம்



சீராரு மெங்கள்விஷ்ணு சித்தர்நந் தாவனத்தில்

ஏராருந் துளசிமுல்லை யேகமாய்த் தானும்வச்சு           31



வச்ச பயிர்களுக்கு வளரவே நீர்பாய்ச்சி

உச்சிதமாய்ப் பயிர்கள்செய் துகந்திருக்கும் வேளையிலே;           32



பூமிவிண்டு கேட்கப் புகழ்பெருகு விஷ்ணுசித்தன்

பூமிவிண்ட தலம்பார்த்துப் போனார்காண் அவ்வேளை           33



ஆடித் திருப்பூரத்தில் அழகான துளசியின்கீழ்

நாடி யுதித்ததிரு நாயகியைச் சொன்னாரார்!           33



அப்போது விஷ்ணுசித்தன் அலர்மகளைத் தானெடுத்துச்

செப்பமுடன் "கண்ணே திருவாய் மலர்ந்தருள்வீர்"!!           35



"அய்யா உமக்கடியேன் அருமை மகளாக்கும்,

மெய்யார்ந்த தாயார் மென்மைத் துளசி" என்றார்!!!           36



அப்போது கேட்டு அருளப் பரவசமாய்ச்

செப்பமுடன் பெண்ணேந்தித் திருக்கோயில் தான்புகுந்து;           37



பூந்துளவ மணிவண்ணன் பொன்னடிக்கீழ்ப் பெண்ணைவிட

ஊர்ந்து விளையாடி யுலாவியே தான்திரியப்           38



பெண்கொணர்ந்த விஷ்ணுசித்தன் பெருமாளைத் தானோக்கிப்

'பெண்வந்த காரணமென் பெருமாளே சொல்லு" மென்றார்           39



அப்போது மணிவண்ணன் 'அழகான பெண்ணுனக்குச்

செப்பமுடன் வந்த திருக்கோதை நாயகியார்           40



என்று பேருமிட்டு எடுத்துக் குழந்தைதனை

உன்றன் மனைக்கு உகந்துதான் செல்லும்' என்றார்.           41



சொன்னமொழி தப்பாமல் சுந்தரியைத் தானெடுத்துக்

கன்னல் மொழி விரசைசு கையிலேதான் கொடுக்க           42



அப்போது விரசையரும் அமுதுமுலை தான்கொடுக்கச்

செப்பமுடன் தொட்டிலிலே சீராய் வளரவிட்டு           43



மாணிக்கங் கட்டிவயிர மிடைக்கட்டி

ஆணிப்பொன் னால்செய்த வண்ணச் சிறுதொட்டில்           44



பேணி யுனக்குப் பிரமன் விடுதந்தான்

மாணிக்கமே தாலேலோ மங்கையரே தலேலோ,           45



அன்னமே தேனே அழகே அரிவையரே

சொன்னமே மானே தோகையரே தாலேலோ.           46



பொன்னே புனமயிலே பூங்குயிலே மாந்துளிரே

மின்னே விளக்கொளியே வேதமே தாலேலோ,           44



பிள்ளைகளும் இல்லாத பெரியாழ்வார், தனக்குப்

பிள்ளைவிடாய் தீர்த்த பெண்ணரசே தாலேலோ,           48



மலடி விரசையென்று வையகத்தோர் சொல்லாமல்

மலடு தனைத் தீர்த்த மங்கையரே தாலேலோ,           49



பூவனங்கள் சூழும் புதுவா புரிதனிலே

காவனத்தில் வந்துதித்த கன்னியரைச் சொன்னாரார்.           50



கண்ணேயென் கண்மணியே கற்பகமே தெள்ளமுதே

பெண்ணே திருமகளே பேதையரே தாலேலோ,           51



மானே குயிலினமே வண்டினமே தாறாவே

தேனே மதனாபிஷேகமே தெள்ளமுதே           52



வானோர் பணியும் மரகதமே மாமகளே

ஏனோர் கலிநீங்க இங்குவந்த தெள்ளமுதே,           53



பூமலர்கள் சூழும் பூங்கா வனத்துதித்த

மாமகளே சோதி மரகதமே தாலேலோ,           54



வண்டினங்கள் பாடும் மதுவொழுகும் பூங்காவில்

பண்டுபெரி யாழ்வார் பரிந்தெடுத்த தெள்ளமுதே,           55



சென்னல்களை முத்தீன்று செழிக்கும் புதுவையிலே

அன்னமே மானே ஆழ்வார் திருமகளே           56



"வேதங்க ளோதி வென்றுவந்த ஆழ்வார்க்குச்

சீதைபோல் வந்துதித்த திருமகளைச் சொன்னாரார்"!           57



முத்தே பவளமே மோகனமே பூங்கிளியே

வித்தே விளக்கொளியே வேதமே தாலேலோ,           58



"பாமாலை பாடிப் பரமனுக்கு என்னாளும்

பூமாலை சூடிப் புகழ்தளித்த தெள்ளமுதே"!!           59



அஞ்சு வயதில் அவனியில் வந்துதித்த

பிஞ்சாய்ப் பழுத்த பெண்ணமுதே தாலேலோ,           60



"எந்தை தந்தையென்று இயம்பும்பெரி யாழ்வார்க்கு

மைந்தர் விடாய்தீர்த்த மாதேநீ" தாலேலோ,           61



"பொய்கைமுத லாழ்வார்க்கும் பூமகளாய் வந்துதித்த

மைவிழிசோதி மரகதமோ" தாலேலோ!           62



"உலகளந்த மாயன் உகந்துமணம் பண்ணத்

தேவாதி தேவர் தெளிந்தெடுத்த தெள்ளமுதோ"!           63



"சொல்லை நிலையிட்ட சுந்தரராம் ஆழ்வார்க்குச்

செல்லப் பெண்ணாய்" வந்த திருமகளைச் சொன்னாரார்!           64



நாராணனை விஷ்ணுவென்று நண்ணுமெங்க ளாழ்வார்க்குக்

காரணமாய் வந்துதித்த கற்பகத்தைச் சொன்னாரார்!           65



உள்ள முருகி ஊசலிடும் பட்டருக்குப்

பிள்ளை விடாய்தீர்த்த பெண்ணமுதே தாலேலோ!           66



பாகவ தார்த்தம் பாடுமெங்க ளாழ்வார்க்குத்

தாகவிடாய் தீர்த்த தங்கமே தாலேலோ!           67



தென்புதுவை வாழும் ஸ்ரீவிஷ்ணு தீர்த்தனுக்கு

அன்புடனே வந்துதித்த அன்னமே தாலேலோ!           68



சாஸ்திரங்கள் ஓதும் சத்புருஷன் ஆழ்வார்க்குச்

சோஸ்திரஞ் செய்து துலங்கவந்த கண்மணியோ!           69



வாழைகளும் சூழ்புதுவை வாழுமெங்க ளாழ்வார்க்கு

ஏழையாய் வந்துதித்த ஏந்திழையே தாலேலோ!           70



கன்னல்களுஞ் சூழ்புதுவை கார்க்குமெங்க ளாழ்வார்க்குப்

பன்னுதமிழ் என்னாளும் பாடநல்ல நாயகமோ!           71



பல்லாண்டு பாடும் பட்டர்பிரா னாழ்வார்க்கு

நல்லாண்டில் வந்துதித்த நாயகியைச் சொன்னாரார்!           72



எந்தாகம் தீத்து ஏழேழு தலைமுறைக்கும்

வந்தாளும் செல்வ மங்கையரே தாலேலோ!           73



என்றுநிதம் கோதையரை எடுத்து வளர்க்கையிலே;

'அன்றொருநாள் விஷ்ணுசித்தன் முதுமலர் தொடுத்துவைக்கத்,           74



தொடுத்துவைத்த மலரதனைச் சூடி நிழல்பார்த்து

விடுத்துவைத்துக் கோதையரும் விளையாட்டி லேதிரிய           75



அப்போது விஷ்ணுசித்தன் அனுஷ்டான முதலசெய்

தெப்போதுங் போல்கோயிற் கேகவே வேணுமென்று           76



தொடுத்த மாலைதனைச் சுவாமிக்கே சாத்தவென்று

எடுத்தேகு மாழ்வாரும் என்கையிலே கேசங்கண்டு           77



பெண்ணரசி கோதை குழல்போலே யிருக்குதென்று

பெண்ணான கோதைக்குக் காட்டியே தானுருக்கிப்           78



பின்பு வனம்புகுந்து பிரியமாய்ப் பூக்கொய்து

அன்புடனே மாயனுக் கலங்கார மாய்ச்சாத்த".           79



அப்போது மணிவண்ணன் ஆழ்வாரைத் தான்பார்த்து

"இப்போது மணங்காணேன் ஏதுகா ணாழ்வாரே"           80



என்று சொல்ல, ஆழ்வாரும் இருகையும் தான்கூப்பித்;

"துன்றிவளக் கோதையரும் சூடியே தானும்வைத்தாள்.           81



அம்மாலை தள்ளி அழகான பூக்கொணர்ந்து

நன்மாலை கொண்டு நானுனக்குச் சாத்தவந்தேன்"           82



என்றுசொல்ல, மணிவண்ணன் இன்பமாய்த் தான்கேட்டு,

"நன்றாக ஆழ்வாரே நானுனக்குச் சொல்லுகிறேன்:-           83



ஒன்மகளும் பூச்சூட்டி ஒருக்கால் நிழல்பார்த்து

பின்பு களைந்து பெட்டியிலே பூ வைப்பாள்.           84



அம்மாலை தன்னை ஆழ்வாரே நீ ரேத்துவந்து

இம்மாலை சாத்தி யிருந்தீ ரிதுவரைக்கும்.           85



இன்றுமுதல் பூலோக மெல்லாந் தானறிய

அன்றுமலர் கொய்து அழகாகத் தான்தொடுத்துக்           86



கோதை குழல்சூடிக் கொணருவீர் நமக்குநிதம்

கீதமே ளத்தோடும் கீர்த்தனங்கள் தன்னோடும்           87



இன்றுமுதல் சூடிக்கொடுத்தா ளிவள்பேரும்

நன்றாகத்தான் வாழ்த்தும் நன்மையே தான்பெறுவீர்!           88



என்றுரைக்க மணிவண்ணன் யேகினர்காண் ஆழ்வாரும்

சென்றுவந்த மாளிகையில் சிறப்பா யிருந்துநிதம்           89



நீராட்டி மயிர்முடித்து நெடுவேற்கண் மையெழுதி

சீராட்டிக் கோதையரைச் சிறப்பாய் வளர்க்கையிலே           90



ஊரார் உறமுறையார் உற்றார்கள் பெற்றோர்கள்

சீரான ஆழ்வாரைச் சிறப்பாகப் பெண்கேழ்க்க;           91



அப்போது விஷ்ணுசித்தன் அழகான கோதையரை

செப்பமுடன் மடியில் வைத்துத் திருமாலைதான் கொடுத்து           92



'உனக்கேதம் பிள்ளைகட் குகந்தே மலர்சூடி

மனைக் காவலனென்றும் மகிழ்ந்தேத்தி வாழும் என்றார்.           93



அவ்வார்த்தை கேட்டு அழகான கோதையரும்

செவ்வான வார்த்தையென்று திரும்பியே தானுரைப்பாள்           94



வையம் புகழய்யா மானிடவர் பதியன்று!

"உய்யும் பெருமாள் உயர்சோலை மலையழகர்           95



இவர்கள் தாம்பதி இரண்டாம் பதியரில்லை!!

அவர்கள் தம்பாட்டில் அனுப்பியே வையும்!!! என்றார்           96



இவ்வார்த்தை கேட்டு இனத்தோரெல்லோரும்

செவ்வான வடிதேடித் தேசத்தே போனார்கள்           97



போனபின்பு விஷ்ணுசித்தன் பொன்னே புனமயிலே

ஞானமுடன் வந்துதித்த நாயகியைச் சொன்னாரார்.           98



இப்படிக் கோதையரும் இருந்து வளருகையில்,

ஒப்பிலாள்நோம்பு உகந்துதான் நோர்க்கவென்று           99



மணிவண்ணர் தனைத்தேடி மனக்கருத்தை யவர்க்குரைத்துப்

பணிசெய்த விருதுகளைப் பாரிப்பாய்த் தான்கேழ்க்க!           100



மகிழ்ந்து மணி வண்ணன் மனமுவந்து மறையோர்க்குப்

புகழ்ந்துதான் உத்தரவு பொருமுதலுந் தான்கொடுக்க!!           101



உத்தரவு வாங்கி உலகெலாந் தான்நிறைய;

'ந்஢த்தமொரு நோன்பு நேத்தியாய்த் தான்குளித்து           102



மாயவனை நோக்கி வந்தி மலரெடுத்து

மாயவனைப் போத்தி மணம்புணர வேணுமென்று           103



மார்கழி நீராடி மகிழ்ந்து திருப்பாவை

சீர்கள் குறையாமல் சிறப்பாகத் தான்பாடிப்           104



பாடிப் பறைகொண்டு பரமனுக்குப் பூமாலை

சூடிக் கொடுத்து தொழுது நினைத்திருக்க'           105



மாயவனும் வாராமல் மாலைகளுந் தாராமல்

ஆயன்முகங் காட்டாமல் ஆரு மனுப்பாமல்           106



இப்படிக்குச் செய்தபிழை யேதென்று நானறியேன்

செப்படி தோழியரே! திங்கள்முகக் கன்னியரே,           107



தோழியரும் தானுரைப்பாள் 'துய்யவட வேங்கடவன்

ஆழியுடன் வந்து அழகாய் மணம்புணர்வார்'           108



என்றுசொலக் கோதையும் இதையுங் குழைந்து நிதம்

அன்றில் குயில்மேகம் அரங்கருக்குத் தூதுவிடத்,           109



'தூதுவிட்டும் வாராமல் துய்ய வேங்கடவன்

எதிரிருந்து கொண்டார் இனிமேல் மனஞ்சகியேன்           111



என்று மனம்நொந்து இருக்க நிதங் கோதையரும்

சென்றுவந்து தோழியர்கள் செப்பவே பாவையர்க்கு           111



'அச்சேதி கேட்டு ஆழ்வார் நடுநடுங்கி

அச்சுதனைப் பாடும் அழகான கோதையர்க்குச்           111



சென்றுவந்து பிள்ளைவிடாய் தீர்த்த திருமகட்கு

மன்றலுஞ் செய்யாமல் வச்சிருந்தால் மோசம்வரும்,           112



என்று திருமகளை எடுத்துச் சிவிகைவைச்சு

சென்று திருவரங்கம் சேவிக்க வேணுமென்று           114



நல்லநாள் பார்த்து நடந்து திருவரங்கம்

எல்லையுங் கிட்டி இருந்துதென் காவிரியில்           115



நீராட்டஞ் செய்து நெடும்போது செபஞ்செய்து

சீராட்ட வந்து திருமகளத் தான்தேடப்           116



பல்லக்கில் காணாமல் பந்தொடியார் காணாமல்

எல்லாருங் காணாமல் என்மகளை யாரெடுத்தார்           117



நின்று மனம்நொந்து நாற்றிசையும் தான்தேடி

சென்று திருவரங்கத் திருக்கோயில் தான்புகுந்து           118



ஒருமகளை யானுடையேன் உலகளந்த மாயவனாம்

திருமகளைத் தானெடுத்து செங்கண்மால் கொண்டொளித்தாய்!           119



என்றாழ்வா ருஞ்சொல்ல இரங்கித் திருவரங்கர்

சென்றெங்களய்யர் திருவடியைத் தான்தொழுவார்!           120



அப்போது கோதையரும் அரங்கர் அடியைவிட்டு

இப்போதும் அய்யர் இணையடியைத் தான்தொழுதாள்!!           121



வாழ்த்தியே அய்யர் மகிழ்ந்து மகள்தனக்கும்

வாழ்த்தியே முற்று மகிழ்ந்து ரெங்கருக்கும்.           122



வாழிமுதல் பாடி மங்களமும் தான்பாடி

'ஆழிநீர் வண்ணனுக்கு அழகாய் மணம்புணர்வாய்!           123



என்று சொல்லி யாழ்வாரும் இன்பமாய் ரெங்கர்தனை

மன்றல்செய்ய வாருமய்யா மணவாளா என்றழைத்தார்!           124



பங்குனி மாசப் பவர்ணமையில் உத்திரத்தில்

அங்கூரஞ் செய்து அழகாய் மணம்புணர           125



வாருமைய்யா வென்று மகிழ்ந்தேத்தி ரெங்கரையும்

சீரணிந்த கோதைதனைச் சிறப்பாகத் தானழைக்க!!!           126



அப்போது நம்பெருமாள் ஆழ்வாரை விடைகொடுத்துத்

தப்பாமல் நான்வருவேன் தார்குழலி தன்னோடும்.           127



என்றுசொல்லி ஆழ்வாரும் ஏகியே வில்லிபுத்தூர்

சென்றுதிரு மாளிகையில் சிறப்பாகத் தானிருந்து           128



கோதையருக்கு மன்றல் கோஷமாய்ச் செய்யவென்று

.....................................................................................           129



சீதையர்க்கு மன்றல் சிறப்பாய்ச் செய்யவென்று,

ஓலை யெழுதி உலகெலாம் நாளனுப்பிக்           130



..............................................................

கரும்பினால் கால்நிறுத்திக் கற்பகத்தால் பந்தலிட்ட           131



கரும்பினிடை வாழை கட்டிக் கஞ்சமலர் தொங்கவிட்டுப்

................................................................           132



பூக்கள் கொணர்ந்து பூம்பந்தல் தான்போட்டு

.................................................................           133



மாங்கனிகள் தூக்கி வருக்கைப் பிலாதூக்கித்

தேங்கனிகள் தூக்கிச் சிறப்பா யலங்கரித்து.           134



மேளமுடன் மத்தளமும் மேல்முரசுந் தானடிக்கக்

காளமுடன் நாகசுரம் கலந்து பரிமாற.           135



வானவர்கள் மலர்தூவி வந்து அடிபணியக்

கானவர்கள் பூக்கொய்து கலந்து பணிந்தேத்த.           136



இந்திரனும் எண்டிசையும் இறைஞ்சி மலர்தூவச்

சந்திரனுஞ் சூரியனும் சாமரங்கள் தான்போட.           137



ரத்னமணி யாசனமும் ரத்தினக் கம்பளியும்

சித்ரமணி மண்டபமும் செம்பொன் குறடுகளும்.           138



ஆழ்வார் கிளையும் அயலோர்கள் எல்லோரும்

ஆழ்வார் திருமகளை அன்பாகப் போற்றவந்த           139



தூபம் கமழத் தொண்டர்களுந் தான்பாடத்

தீபம் துலங்க ஸ்ரீவைஷ்ண வோரிருக்க           140



வேதந் துலங்க மேன்மேலும் சாஸ்திரங்கள்

கீதம் முழங்கக் கீர்த்தனங்கள் தான்முழங்க.           141



வாத்திமார் புல்லெடுத்து மறைகள் பலஓதப்.

................................................................           142



பூரண கும்பமுதல் பொற்கலசம் தானும்வைத்து

நாரணனைப் போத்தி நான்மறைகள் தானோத.           143



இப்படிக்கு ஆழ்வாரும் எல்லாருங் காத்திருக்க

சத் புருடன் வாராமல் தாமசமாய்த் தானிருக்க.           144



கொற்றப் புள்ளியில் ரெங்கர் கொடிய வனங்கடந்து

வெற்றிச் சங்கூதி வில்லிபுத்தூர் தன்னில்வந்து.           145



மணவாள ராகிமணவறையில் தானிருந்து

மணஞ்செய்யும் வேளைகண்டு மறையோர்க்குத் தான்கொடுத்தார்           146



ஆடைமுத லாபரணம் அவனிமுதல் பால்பசுக்கள்

கோடைமுதல் தானங் கொடுத்து நிறைந்தபின்பு           147



மந்தரமார் கோடியுடுத்து மணமாலை

யந்தரி சூட்டி அழகான கோதையர்க்கு           148



மத்தளம்கொட்ட வரிசங்கம் நின்றூத

முத்தாலித் ததும்ப நிரைதரளப் பந்தலின்கண்           149



கைத்தலம் பத்திக் கலந்து பரிமாற.

.......................................................           150



ஆழ்வார் திருமகளை அழகாகத் தான்வாங்கி.           151



மன்றலுஞ் செய்து மகிழ்ந்து மதுவர்க்கம்

கன்றலு மூன்று கழித்து அரங்கருந்தான்           152



அக்கினி வளர்த்து அழகா யலங்கரித்து

அக்கினியைப் போத்தி அக்ஷதையும் தான்தூவி           153



வாய்நல்லார் நல்ல மறையோதி மந்திரத்தால்.

.....................................................................           154



பஞ்சிலை நாணற் படுத்துப் பரிவைத்து

...............................................................           155



ஓமங்கள் செய்து ஒருக்காலும் மலர்தூவி

.................................................................           156



காசின் பணங்கள் கலந்துதா னெங் கொடுத்து

................................................................           157



தீவலஞ் செய்து திரும்பி மனையில்வந்து

.................................................................           158



இம்மைக்கும் ஏழேழ் பிறவிக்கும் பார்த்தவாய்

நம்மை யுடையவன் நாராயணன் நம்பி           159



செம்மையுடைய திருக்கையால் தாழ்த்தி

அம்மி மிதித்து அருந்ததியும் தான்பார்த்து           160



அரிமுதன் அச்சுதன் அங்கைமேலும் கைவைத்துப்

பொரி முகந்தபடிப் போத்தி மறையோரை           161



அக்ஷதைகள் வாங்கி அரங்கர் மணவரையில்

பக்ஷமுட னிருந்து பாக்கிலையுந் தான்போட்டுக்           162



கோதையுடன் கூடிக் குங்குமச் சப்பரத்தில்

சீதையுடன் கூடிச் சிறப்பாகத் தானிருந்தார்.           163



அச்சேதி கேட்டு ஆழ்வார் மனமகிழ்ந்து

இச்சேதி வைபவங்கள் எங்குங் கிடையாது.           164



என்று பெரியாழ்வார் இளகி மனமகிழ்ந்து

குன்று குடையெடுத்த கோனை மகிழ்ந்துநிதம்.           165



வாழி முதல் பாடி மங்களமும் தான்பாட

ஆழிமுதல் பாடி ஆழ்வாரும் போற்றிநின்றார்           166



வாழும் புதுவைநகர் மாமறையோர் தான்வாழி

ஆழிநிறை வண்ணன்முதல் ஆழ்வார்கள் தான்வாழி           167



கோதையரும் வாழிகோயில்களும் தான்வாழி

சீதையரும்வாழி செகமுழுதும் தான்வாழி.           168

---------



கோதை நாச்சியார் தாலாட்டு முற்றிற்று.





This file was last updated on 4 April 2023. 

Feel free to send the corrections to the webmaster (pmadurai AT gmail.com) 





