





















tirunAvukkaracar tEvaram -English Translation by Kausalya Hart (in unicode UTF-8 format)










திருநாவுக்கரசர் தேவாரம்

ஆங்கில மொழிபெயர்ப்பு (முதல் 1000 பாசுரங்கள்)

கௌசல்யா ஹார்ட்



tirunAvukkaracar tEvaram, first 1000 pAcurams

English Translation by Kausalya Hart

In Tamil script, unicode/utf-8 format




 Acknowledgements: 

We thank Dr. Kausalya Hart (Univ of California, Berkeley, CA, USA, retired) for providing a soft copy of this 

translation work of hers and for permission to include it as part of Project Madurai Collections. 

Preparation of HTML and PDF versions: Dr. K. Kalyanasundaram, Lausanne, Switzerland.




 © Project Madurai, 1998-2024.

Project Madurai is an open, voluntary, worldwide initiative devoted to preparation

of electronic texts of Tamil literary works and to distribute them free on the Internet.

Details of Project Madurai are available at the website

https://www.projectmadurai.org/

You are welcome to freely distribute this file, provided this header page is kept intact.




Fourth Thirumurai 

English Translation by Kausalya Hart  


 Fourth Thirumurai  Translation  - contents

Thevaaram - Thirunavukkarasar 

Padiham 1. Thiruvadihai Veerattanam  1-10

Padiham 2. Thiruvathihai Veerattaanam 11-20

Padiham 3. Thiruvaiyaru  21-31 

Padiham 4. Thiruvarur  32-41

Padiham 5. Thiruvarur  42-51

Padiham 6. Thirukkazippaalai  52-61

Padiham 7. Thirukkachi Ekampam  62-71 

Padiham 8. Pothu—General Verses  72-81

Padiham 9. Podu—General Verses (Thiruvanga Malai) 82-93

Padiham 10. Thiruvadikai Veerattanam (Thirukkedilavanam) 94-103

Padiham 11. Potu—General Verses (Namashivaya Thiruppadiham) 104-113 

Padiham 12. Thiruppazanam   114-123

Padiham 13. Thiruvaiyaru  124 - 133

Padiham 14. Podu—General Verses. Dasapuranam—Adaivu. Stories 134-144

Padiham 15. Podu Pavanasat Thiruppadiham 145-155

Padiham 16. Thiruppuhalur  156-165

Padiham 17. Thiruvarur Araneri  166-176 

Padiham 18. Potu—General Verses 177-186

Padiham 19. Thiruvarur 187-197

Padiham 20. Thiruvarur 198-207

----------------


Padiham 1. Thiruvadihai Veerattanam


1. This sickness is Yama to me, 

you have not cured it.

I am guilty of many sins 

yet I worshiped only your feet 

night and day without leaving you.

This sickness hurts my stomach without stopping 

crushing my intestines.

I cannot bear this pain. I am your slave! 

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



2. I kept in my heart a place for you only

and there is no time I have not thought of you.

I can’t think of something more cruel than this pain

that crushes my stomach and my intestines like poison.

Please make it go away so it will not hurt me. 

You have not said to me, “Do not be afraid,”

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



3. You forgive all the sins of your devotees, 

you wander begging, carrying the skull of Brahma.

I have decided to be your slave and live,

but this sulai sickness hurts me. 

You are smeared with ashes from the worship of your devotees

and wear a skull garland on your chest and ride happily on a bull.

Cure me, O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



4. I was ignorant before and worshiped other gods.

My stomach is weak and hurts me.

Now I have become your slave.

This sulai sickness burns me. Cure me!

Isn’t it the duty of a master to remove the karma

of those come asking for refuge,

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.

where women walk like swans?



5. I am like someone who falls into a pond 

when the guard does not watch 

and ignores those he needs to protect

and people on the shore say, “Take care of yourself!”

I do not know how to escape my pain.

I have never heard of such terrible pain,

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



6. I have not forgotten to worship you 

with water, a lamp and flowers,

and I have not forgotten to praise you 

with Tamil songs and music.

I have not forgotten you in good and bad times in my life, 

and my mouth never forgets to say your name. 

Cure this sulai sickness that hurts my whole body.
I am your slave, I am tired,

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



7. I have married and lived happily with wealth,

but there was no one to tell me how to be a devotee.

When I loved you, I became your slave

and I want to live for you.

This sulai sickness hurts me—cure this pain.

I am afraid. It hurts my entire stomach,

as if someone had cut me with a knife.

I, your slave, I am tired,

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



8. I lived happily in my home

and I have not hurt or cheated anyone.

If I am hurt, there is no one to help me. 

O lord adorned with conch earrings,

this sulai sickness hurts me.

I cannot bear it—I, your slave, am tired,

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



9. Your body shines like gold.

and the crescent moon wanes in your matted hair.

Take care of me so that

sorrow and sickness do not come near.

If this is the kind of suffering your devotees must endure,

how can they understand you?

We need your love, O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.



10. You took the skin of an elephant and wear it 

and you dance in the burning forest.

When Ravana came to fight with you boasting,

you crushed him under the mountain

and gave him your grace.

I am sweating, rolling falling and wandering.

Remove my suffering,

O lord, god of Thiruvadihai Veerattanam

on the banks of the Kedila river.

-----------


Padiham 2. Thiruvathihai Veerattaanam 

 
11. He wears a sulamani ornament

and white ashes and sandal paste on his body,

while the crescent moon shines on his hair.

On his waist is the bright-colored skin of a tiger, 

his coral color shines and spreads light everywhere,

and a snake is wrapped around his throat. 

He stays on the sandy bank of the Kedila river.

I am the devotee of that unique god. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid. 



12. He wears the shell of a turtle

and a white sacred thread that shines like the moon on his chest.

He carries the beautiful feathers of a bird and a golden banner. 

I am the devotee of that unique lord

on the banks of the flooding Kedila river. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.



13. He wears a young snake around his neck

and his shoulders are adorned with cloths of silk.

He wears sacred pearl beads and carries a trident shaped like three leaves.

He stays on the bank of the flooding Kedila river

that goes around high-walled Veerattaanam with its Siddhas’ mutts. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.



14. He carries a young deer in one hand and an axe in the other.

He plays a beautiful veena 

and his arms are as strong as Himalaya mountain.

As he dances his body bends like a bow, 

and he is marked by the sign of Vishnu who embraced his chest. 

He stays on the bank of the flooding Kedila river.

I am the devotee of that unique lord. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.



15. He, the lord of the bright sun and moon and tall Kailasa mountain,

is the father of Ganesa, helper of those suffering from desire. 

He stays on the bank of flooding Kedila river and gives goodness to all.

I am the devotee of that unique lord. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.



16. He dances in the forest surrounded with fire as the tudi drums play.

Eighteen Ganas serve him as he performs the kuthu dance on that stage. 

All the sastras of dance do not know his dances.

I am the devotee of that unique lord 

on the banks of the flooding Kedila river. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid. 



17. He wears the skin of a murderous tiger, 

he has large shining earrings, priceless conch ornaments,

and carries the skull of Brahma and begs around for food. 

Shakthi, the daughter of Himalaya, stopped the poison

on his throat that shines like a sapphire.

I am the devotee of that unique lord 

on the bank of the flooding Kedila river.

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.



18. A snake is tied around his waist, 

as he dances the kuthu dance 

while many Bhudams skilled in music sing

and thousands of instruments play. 

No one know the dances that he does.

He stays in flourishing Veerattanam 

where the Kedila river flows with its abundant water.

I am the devotee of that unique lord. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.



19. A snake is tied around his waist and he wears a torn loincloth

and the skin of an elephant that was large as a mountain 

while his beloved wife with a voice as sweet as a yaazh

looks on afraid.

He, the lord of all, stays on the bank of the flooding Kedila river. 

I am the devotee of that unique lord. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid. 



20. Ravana took Kailasa mountain

with his arms using all his strength

as Shakthi looked on trembling.

Shiva fought with him and crushed him under Kailasa.

When Ravana played Samagana music

and Shiva heard his veena playing, he forgave him. 

He stays on the bank of the flooding Kedila river 

that surrounds Veerattaanam with rich fields.

I am the devotee of that unique lord. 

We have no fear of anything and nothing will ever make us afraid.

----------


Padiham 3. Thiruvaiyaru 

 
21. I followed as girls carried water and flowers,

singing the praise of the lord wearing the crescent moon

as a garland on his head and of his wife Uma, the daughter of Himalaya. 

When I entered Aiyaru without soiling my feet, 

I saw an elephant with his young mate,

and seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



22. I danced going round and round singing

and praising the lord, crying, “may the lord prosper!”

When I reached Aiyaru, where devotees praise Vishnu and his discus,

Shiva came with his wife who wore a soft garment.

I saw a rooster going happily with his hen,

and seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



23. I came dancing and praising the lord

adorned with the garland of the bright crescent moon,

coming with his beloved wife who wore priceless ornaments.

When I reached Aiyaru where white waterfalls roar down,

I saw a cuckoo bird dancing with his mate.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



24. I worshiped happily the lord garlanded with the crescent moon.

On his shoulders were flowers that bloomed on the banks of rivers.

He came singing with his bangled wife. 

When I reached Aiyaru where young cuckoo birds sing, 

I saw a male swan dancing with its young mate.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



25. I praised the lord garlanded with the young crescent moon

as he came with his ornamented wife.

I crossed many forests, countries and mountains to worship him 

and when I reached Aiyaru where the lord dances with his wife, 

I saw a male peacock with his mate.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



26. When I saw the lord garlanded with the cool crescent moon 

with his wife, I knew him, my body grew weak and my soft heart melted.

When I reached Aiyaru where the lord stays

I saw a beautiful pahandril bird dancing with its mate.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



27. When I reached Aiyaru where the lord, 

adorned with musical anklets stays,

I sang praising the forms and the beauty of the goddess and the god

wearing the garland of the crescent moon.

I saw a boar and his mate whose cries were like thunder.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



28. I arose at dawn and picked beautiful flowers

to decorate the goddess and the lord

wearing the lovely garland of the crescent moon

and I sang the praise of their forms and beauty. 

When I came to Aiyaru

where the waves of the Kaveri river bring golden jewels and ornaments

and pour them on its bank,

I saw a handsome deer with his doe.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



29. I, his devotee, cannot release myself from the desires of the world.

I went to Aiyaru dancing and singing the praise of the lord 

adorned with a crescent-moon garland

and he came with his beloved wife with lovely hair. 

When I reached Aiyaru I saw a heron dancing with his beautiful mate. 

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



30. When I came to Aiyaru where girls danced, 

the lord adorned with a crescent-moon garland 

came with his wife whose words are sweet as honey.

When I saw him, I worried, “Will my father give me his grace?”

At that time, a beautiful parrot came flying and dancing with his mate. 

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 



31. I sing the praise of the lord

who wears the garland of the growing crescent moon, 

and of with his wife with lovely hair.

When I reached Aiyaru with abundant love

and stood at the door of his temple 

searching for a time I might reach moksha, 

I saw a bull embracing a young cow.

Seeing their sacred feet

made me to see things that I had never seen. 

-------------


Padiham 4. Thiruvarur  

 
32. He is escorted by young Bhudams, 

his lips have a coral color

and he embraces his wife whose breasts are soft and round.

He wears the young white crescent moon for a garland, 

carries a shining sulam weapon,

and has a dancing snake around his neck.

He stays happily in Thiruvarur. 



33. He changed foxes into horses,

and the Naragars into Devas.
He gives boons to those who fast and worship him,

and can produce grain in the fields without seeds.

When, with his waist adorned with a snake,

he comes in a procession, drums are beaten,

elephants walk before him

and his devotees bow and worship him.

He stays happily in Thiruvarur. 



34. His body, red as fire, is smeared with sacred ash,

he joyfully rides on a bull

and stays in the hearts of those with him in their thoughts.

He wears a garland of fragrant karandai flowers

and Ganga flows in his jaṭa. 

The lord taught the four Vedas to the Rishis

and he stays in the temple in Thiruvarur. 



35. He wears a fragrant kondrai garland.

He smiled and burned Kāma, the god of spring

with a sugarcane bow.

His eyes were like fire

as he burned the three walls of the Raksasas.

He sits on the hide of the elephant that he skinned

as his frightened wife Shakthi looked on with her sword-like eyes.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



36. He lives beyond the end of the universe,

and he touches and blesses the heads of his beloved devotees.

He has long red jaṭa and on the banner he carries is a strong bull.

Women who love him send their friends to him as messengers.

His devotees worship him and Vishnu

holding a discus and conch in his hands bows to him,

the god of Thiruvarur.



37. Vishnu sleeping on the ocean worships him.

He is the unique thing that transcends the world.

He with a red-eyed bull on his banner

is praised in wonderful poems

Embracing his wife with fragrant long hair,

he is celebrated on Thiruvadirai day,

he, the god of Thiruvarur.



38. He appears and shows his grace to the hearts of the devotees

when they approach him, joining their hands and worshiping him.

If his devotees bring flowers in their beautiful hands

and sprinkle them on him, he stands before them to receive them.

In his beautiful jaṭa he hides Ganga

whose flowing water is like long hair

and he carries fire in his strong hands.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



39. His thousand beautiful feet are like a thousand lotuses,

his thousand shoulders shine like a thousand golden mountains

and he is crowned with a thousand crowns bright as a thousand suns. 

The lord, praised with a thousand names,

has jaṭa whose thousand long strands shine like a thousand suns.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



40. The world is the stage where he dances.

Brahma, the lord of the Vedas, ran behind him 

searching for his head in the sky, which is his dancing hall.

He endures beyond the end of the universe,

he dances in the burning ground,

and when he dances the eyes and minds

of women dance with him.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



41. Shiva abides in the heart of Vishnu 

who sleeps on the shining snake Adisesha.

With one toe he crushed the twenty-armed Ravana

and gave him moksha.

Giving his grace to his famous always truthful devotees, 

he, the god of Thiruvarur, is above all the twenty-five philosophies.

----------


Padiham 5. Thiruvarur 

 
42. I thought I could live 

without worshiping the feet of the god 

whose body is covered with white ashes,

and I joined the Jains and carried a water pot.

I did not worship with love in my heart

the god of Thiruvarur filled with flower gardens

where cuckoo birds sing, peacocks dance

and devotees pick flowers to decorate the lord. 

I am like someone spurning sweet fruits 

and desiring only fruit that is unripe. 

I am a thief. 



43. He gave me this body with bones, nerves and skin,

made me happy and removed all my karma,

and made my heart his temple.

The god of Thiruvarur

made me his slave and gave me his grace,

yet I left him and joined the Jains.

This is as if someone hunting a rabbit 

were to leave the rabbit and chase a crow. 



44. When I listened constantly to the words of the evil Jains

and increased my sins, 

the lord of Arur came to me,

removed the hypocrisy in my heart, melted it,

took away the sickness of following the Jains 

and gave his grace. 

I did not have the fortune of being near him always.

It was like when one’s fate is to acquire virtue

going and buying wickedness.



45. Joining the Jains, I became a bad person,

made my head bald, wandered without shame

and when young women saw me, they made fun of me.

The smiling god of Arur,

giving his grace to devotees who sing his praise

and sprinkle sacred water on his feet,

thought I too was important and gave his grace.

Being ignorant I tried to make a doll from cold water.



46. Becoming a Jain, 

I listened to the honey-like words of people

evil like cruel snakes,

wandered begging with my hands out for alms,

and my mouth smelled bad from eating that food.

I had not worshiped and kept the precious lord Shiva in my heart.

I was like the someone going to fight in a war

without knowing how to fight.



47. As a Jain, reciting bad mantras, 

wandering with a bald head, I prattled on. 

The lord taught me true knowledge,

stayed in my heart and showed me moksha.

I had not thought of the god of Arur, nectar for all his devotees. 

I was like a barren cow put in a dark stall

and asked to give milk from her udder.



48. I did not know where my refuge might be.

To become a Jain monk, I plucked out my hair making my eyes burn.

I begged for food, ate from my hands,

and wandered on the streets, not knowing what the city I was in.

When they saw me people laughed at me. 

I did not know the god of Arur

and did not have the fortune of having his grace, 

the honey of moksha in this birth. 

I was like someone trying to warm himself by the light of a firefly 

when there is a lamp in front of him. 



49. Becoming like a puvai bird, I plucked out my hair,

became bald and listened only to the evil Jains.

I felt like a thief and when I saw beautiful women

with eyes like kuvalai flowers , 

I ran from them, hid myself and locked the door of my house. 

The god of Arur gave me his grace, saved me 

and made me his devotee. 

I am a sinner and did not know the lord.

I was like an emaciated beggar

begging in a city where there are no people.



50. He burned the three forts of his enemy Raksashas

shooting only one arrow.

He burned Kama who rides on an elephant with his third eye

and crushed Yama under his feet. 

He is the god of Arur.

I have not done tapas to reach him.

He has no anger or enmity.

I have lived uselessly wandering about with pride. 



51. When Ravana did not listen to the advice of his charioteer

and tried to dig up and carry away Kailasa mountain, the abode of Shiva,

the lord of Arur stopped him,

crushing all his ten heads and twenty arms.

He took away one of the heads of Brahma on a lotus. 

He drank the poison that came from the milky ocean 

making his throat dark.

I have not worshiped him— 

it is as if I bit an iron rod instead of a sugarcane stalk.

-------------


Padiham 6. Thirukkazippaalai 

 
The Sevili (foster mother) speaks of her daughter: 



52. Opening her coral mouth my daughter says,

“He gives all boons to the gods in the sky, 

he wears white shining ashes on his strong coral-colored arms,

and he stays with his wife with a jeweled mekalai on her waist.”

Did she see the god of Thirukkazippaalai 

where the waves of the ocean bring large corals 

and deposit them on the shore?



53. She says ,

“His jaṭa is adorned with kondrai flowers swarming with bees,

he wears a white garland of fragrant erukkam flowers and a silk scarf,

he is the god abiding above all the worlds.”

Did she see the god of Thirukkazippaalai

where the waves of the ocean 

bring large corals and leave them on the shores?



54. She says, 

“The lord’s jaṭa is decorated with the crescent moon,

his shining body is red like saffron.

He is dear to Parvathi whose eyes are like heroic spears

and his throat has the color of blue sapphire.”

Did she see the lord of Thirukkazippaalai

where the ocean has roaring waves?



55. She says, 

“He carries an iron sulam and and a pure axe,

wears pure white ashes and a kondrai garland swarming with bees.

The Pinnahan became a child.”

Did my daughter see the god of Thirukkazippaalai

where dark kuvalai flowers bloom?



56. She says, 

“The lord is faultless and famous.

He wears pure ashes colored like milk.

He does not have only two large eyes but three

and Ganga, rolling with waves, flows in his jaṭa.”

Did she see the god of Thirukkazippaalai

surrounded with backwaters by the ocean. 



57. My daughter says, 

“O lord, your fingers play the veena and sing ragas.

You, my father, burned the three forts of your enemy Raksasas.

You dance with songs as Nandi plays loudly on the drum.”

Did she see the lord of Thirukkazippaalai

filled with beautiful flower gardens, lovely to the eyes. 





58. She says, “On the top of his thick jaṭa, a young snake lurks,

while the crescent moon shines next to it without any fear

because it is Shiva’s jaṭa. 

White shining round earrings hang on his ears.”

Did my daughter see the god of Thirukkazippaalai

where the waves of the ocean bring shining pearls

and deposit them on the shore?



59. She says, 

“He recites the Vedas, wanders around the world and begs for the food,

in his jaṭa Ganga flows with abundant water,

and he is the color of coral that grows in the oceans roaring with waves.”

Did my daughter see the god of Thirukkazippaalai

surrounded with the dark ocean sounding with waves?



60. She says,

“ The crescent moon that floats in the sky stays in his jaṭa,

he wanders all over the town begging, carrying the skull of Brahma,

he wears a kondrai garland swarming with bees on his sacred chest.”

Did she see the god of Thirukkazippaalai

surrounded with groves?



61. She says,

“With his feet, he crushed the invincible Ravana under a mountain.

His sacred body is smeared with shining white ashes.

He taught the Vedas to the four Rishis under a long-branched banian tree.”

Did she see the lord of Thirukkazippaalai 

surrounded by the sea and backwaters?

-----------


Padiham 7. Thirukkachi Ekampam  

 
62. He can’t be understood by wicked people 
but he dances in the hearts of his worshipers.

He is clever and rides on a bull

and a snake lives in his jaṭa. 

He dances carrying fire in his beautiful hand

in the forest at night. 

I worship him in my heart.



63. He is the beloved of Uma, whose words 

are sweet as honey or the lilting words of parrots, 

his sacred red body shines like coral and fire, 

and the waxing crescent moon floats in his jaṭa. 

He is the god of all—

I worship him in my heart.



64. He is the ancient god, loved and worshiped by the gods in the sky

as they sprinkle flowers on him with their hands

and bow to him all times of the day.

I controlled my five senses, sprinkled flowers,

and worshiped that sweet one in my heart.



65. He is the beginning, he is all the worlds,

the wonderful Vedas, the five elements,

and the truth of the world.

Devotees sprinkle flowers on him, the Pinnahan,

garland his head and praise him with garlands of words.

I keep him in my heart.



66. The river Ganga flows in his jaṭa,

he has thousands and thousands of names,

he, the highest of the highest, 

carries the skull of Brahma surrounded by vultures and begs.

The faultless god, his body smeared with sacred ash,

rides on a long-tailed bull.

I keep him in my heart. 



67. He is light.

Vishnu and all the world worship him

and he is happy with the worship he receives.

He is the fragrance in flowers,

he is mountains, earth, water, fire, wind and sky.

He is Esan, my god

and I keep him in my heart.



68. He is good and knows all the four Vedas

and the Upanishads.

He knows all words and their meanings. 

That faultless one lives in the hearts

of those who understand him.

I keep him in my heart,



69. He, the virtuous one,

taught the four Vedas to the four Rishis.

He is all the words, sandhi and meanings in grammar. 

The river Ganga flows in the long jaṭa of that god.

He burned the three forts of the Raksasas.

I keep him in my heart. 



70. Vishnu who lies on the snake bed 

cannot know him.

He, Pasupathi, taught the Vedas to the Rishis

and has both male and female form.

He is god of high-walled Kanchi—

I keep him in my heart 



71. He skinned the elephant,

he gave the Pasupada weapon to Arjuna.

Using Himalaya as a bow 

he shot a sharp arrow at the three forts of the Rakshasas 

and defeated them.

He stopped Ravana when he carried Kailasa mountain, the abode of Shiva.

I keep him in my heart.

------------


Padiham 8. Pothu—General Verses


72. Is any sound as wonderful as the simple word, “Shiva”?

He begs and eats a small amount of food, 

wears around his waist a tiger skin

with a snake as a belt, 

and lives in the burning ground, his temple.

Seeing his qualities, the gods in the sky

have given their hearts to him.



73. Shiva is not the sun,

not Brahma, the decider of everyone’s fate,

not the sky, the earth, the flowing wind,

not burning fire and not clear water.

If one wants to know him, this is what he is:

half of his body is Sakthi whose eyes are darkened with kohl.

He comes to his devotees and gives them his grace.

The lord whose garland is a fire-like snake

is not any of the unblinking gods, 

nor is he the people of the earth who blink.



74. In the middle of the white ashes on his forehead 

he has a thilagam bright as the moon.

His throat is blue like the ocean when the sun rises.

Ankleted, he dances in the burning ground.

He skinned the elephant with his axe,

as his wife with round arms like bamboo

looked, terrified, and cried. 

It is Shiva’s nature to dance for his wife. 



75. On his chest he wears the a turtleshell, 

and his wife, long-haired Shakthi, stays by him.

He sits on a deerskin, wears a sacred thread,

and on his chest is a bright spotted snake.

He dances happily in the burning ground.

Ganga, beautiful as a peacock, with a soft body,

floats in his jaṭa, always filled with water

while spotted bees swarm on her banks.



76. His home is the forest, his garment is a tigerskin,

his vehicle is a bull—this is how Shiva lives. 

He owns only half of his body

because Uma, her forehead like the crescent moon,

shares the other half.

They are joined and she sings for his dance.

The gods of heaven obey the orders 

of the lord with sounding anklets

and garlands surrounded with singing bees. 



77. He wears a garland of vengai flowers, 

the crescent moon floats on his head like a garland, 

and his feet are adorned with anklets.

He wears white ashes and, his body shared with Uma,

he is not one but two.

He is the beloved of the daughter of Himalaya mountain

where beautiful blue peacocks dance

and clouds float over green groves. 

Uma has the color of a dark swan,

and he has the color of fire. 



78. He wears a beautiful garland of blossoming kondrai flowers

in his jaṭa, where cool Ganga floats.

He sings faultlessly the hymns of the Vedas. 

His throat is blue as sapphire.

He, the lord Esan, plays,

and his wife Uma sings

while he dances carrying fire in his hand

and making his snake forget his enmity to the moon.



79. Shining Ganga floats in his jaṭa.

When the bodies of Vishnu and Brahma burned,

he took their ashes and wore them 

making his body bright and white.

He is one but, with his wife Uma, he is also two.

He skinned the angry elephant and wears the skin as his garment.

His wife, adorned with shining jewelry,

shares half of his body as he recites the sacred Vedas.



80. He is the beloved of the daughter of Himalaya

and of Ganga in the north, and he is happy with them.

As a sage he begs carrying the skull of Brahma.

He wears fragrant sacred ashes as if it were priceless sandalwood.

He disguises himself in various forms.

He entered the wave-filled milky ocean 

and drank the poison that arose

when the gods and the asuras churned it to get nectar.



81. On one ear he wears a fresh gold earring

and on the other an earring of conch.

As he recites the Vedas his wife listens, smiling gently.

He wears a kondrai garland dripping with honey,

His form is half man and half woman,

and half of his beautiful body has one color 

while the other, which is Uma, has a different color.

------------


Padiham 9. Podu—General Verses (Thiruvanga Malai)s

 
82. O my head, bow to the lord,

who wears a garland around his head

and wanders carrying the skull of Brahma and begs.

He is our chief, bow to him.



83. O eyes, see the lord.

He drank the poison and made his throat dark. 

He our lord dances, moving his eight hands.

O eyes, see him. 



84. O ears, listen.

He is Shiva, our god 

and has a fire-like body

colored like red coral.

Always hear his sacred qualities and acts.



85. O nose, 

breathe and praise the three-eyed lord.

His abode is the forest 

and he waits for praise from the mouths of his devotees.

O nose, praise him. 



86. Shiva skinned a rutting elephant and wears it as his garment.

O heart, praise him.

He dances in the forest where peys live.

O mouth, praise the lord. 



87. O heart, think of him,

the faultless god with thick jaṭa.

He is the husband of the daughter of Himalaya

where clouds float. 

O heart, think of him.



88. O hands, join together and worship Shiva, 

sprinkling fragrant flowers on the highest lord

with a snake tied around his waist.    

O hands, join together and worship the lord. 



89. What is the use of a body 

if someone does not go around the temple of Shiva

sprinkling flowers and praising him?

What is the use of a body?



90. What is the use of legs

if they do not go around the temple 

in Kokaranam beautiful with sacred towers

where dark-throated Shiva stays?

What is the use of legs?



91. Do we have any dear friends

when Yama comes to take our life

except the dancing god 

of the temple in Kutralam?

Do we have any other dear friends?



92. Will I stay proudly, 

becoming a servant of the Ganas of Shiva 

carrying a small deer in his hands?

Will I go to him and stay under his divine feet

and be happy?



93. I searched and found 

the god whom Vishnu and Brahma sought

and could not find.

I searched and found him inside myself.

---------


Padiham 10. Thiruvadikai Veerattanam (Thirukkedilavanam)

 
94. High in his jaṭa the crescent moon

plunges into the flooding water of Ganga.

A small deer sits happily in his hand 

and he plays the veena with its prattling sounds.

He stays in the temple on the bank of the Kedila river

where as soon as someone digs, he finds gold.



95. Shiva rides on a bull and stays in the temple of Kedilavanam.

He shares the innocent Uma as half of his body. 

He taught all the four Vedas and six Upanishads to the 

Rishis.

Ganga flows in his jaṭa and he wears a torn loincloth. 



96. The god of Kedilavanam has a dark throat,

and his beautiful body is smeared with white ashes.

In his jaṭa, where the bright crescent moon floats,

along with Ganga whose flood water

also flows in Kedilavanam and makes it beautiful.



97. For a bow, he used Himalaya, rich in diamonds, 

bending it with a snake for its string. 

He is adorned with a snake

and his throat is blue.



98. He removes the karma of his worshipers. 

His body shines like coral. 

He carries a young deer and an axe.

The lord of Kedilavanam is a yogi 

and embraces his wife Uma. 



99. He carries fire in his hand

and Ganga flows in his jaṭa.

He lives in the Himalayas,

sharing half of his body with his wife

and he stays in Kedilavanam on the river

called “the Ganga of the south.”



100. He lives in the forest,carries a skull and begs for food. 

He does not worry about what people say about his begging.

He is the god of Kedilavanam 

where monkeys drink honey

dripping from the trees where bees live.



101. When Uma saw the snake of Shiva

she was frightened,

while the snake thought she was a peacock

and the crescent moon seeing, the Ganga

flowing in Shiva’s jaṭa, was jealous.

The lord seeing all this laughed. 



102. The god of Kedilavaanam 

has long sweet-smelling jaṭa,

he wears a spotted tiger skin, 

half of his body he gave to fragrant-haired Uma, 

and he dances and plays. 



103. He crushed with his feet Ravana’s arms 

when Ravana dug up and took Kailasa mountain.

He is the god of Kedilavaanam

where buffalos jump into the water,

lotuses bloom and the flowers drip honey.

------------


Padiham 11. Potu—General Verses (Namashivaya Thiruppadiham)

 
104. He is the words of the Vedas

and the shining god of the sky.

I worship his golden feet joining my hands.

Even if I were tied to a stone and dropped in the ocean, 

Namashivaya would be my help. 



105. The lotus is the best of all flowers,

the cow is the best because it gives five things from its milk,

beauty for a temple is to have a fine tower

and beauty for the tongue is to say “Namashivaya.”



106. If fire comes to wood piled up to the sky, 

nothing will be left.

Just like that sins are removed

as soon as someone says, “Namashivaya.”



107. All the time when we have troubles, 

we only ask the god to help us. 

Even if we are crushed under a mountain, 

our trembling will be removed

if we only say the words, “Namashivaya.”



108. Sacred ash is the ornament for devotees performing vows.

The Vedas and the Upanishads are ornaments for Brahmins.

The crescent moon is the ornament for the long jaṭa of Shiva, 

and “Namashivaya” is the ornament for devotees. 



109. Sankaran the lord does not favor anyone.

Even if people do not come to him, 

he gives them his good grace.

Even if someone is not born in a respectable family,

the thing that gives grace is saying “Namashivaya.”



110. Devotees of Shiva left the desires of the world

and attained moksha, and I also followed them quickly 

and saw the divine form.

And as soon as I saw that divine form

the sacred mantra, “Namashivaya,” came to me. 



111. The sacred mantra “Namashivaya”

is a light to the home.

It takes away darkness, 

gives meaning to all words, 

is a light that brightens our minds

and is seen by all people.

“Namashivaya” is the sacred mantra 

that gives wisdom to all devotees. 



112. Shiva, the ancient three-eyed god, is our guide,

and the followers of his path will surely find moksha.

“Namashivaya” is the sacred mantra 

that leads us to reach God.



113. Shiva carries a young deer in his hand

and shares half his body with his wife Uma.

Devotees who worship the lotus feet of the lord

joining their hands

and recite the sacred mantra “Namashivaya”

will not have any trouble in their life.

----------------


Padiham 12. Thiruppazanam

 
The talaivi (heroine) speaks



114. O cuckoo birds, 

you sing your songs perfectly.

Shiva is the lord of Thiruppazanam 

where buzzing bees swarm around his kondrai garland. 

The smiling crescent moon shines in his jaṭa, 

and he wears a golden garland on his chest.

Will he love me and then leave me?



115. O screwpine flowers, lotus blossoms, 

kandagam, mundagam, kaidai and neydal flowers, 

he is the god of Thiruppazanam where music never stops, 

and he dances in the dancing hall.

He showed me his love,

plunging into the pond swarming with bees,

and now pallor has covered my body.

I will never forget the day he embraced my tender body

and left me—will he come back?



116. O young kurugu living in a nest on a kanchi tree,

did you forget him.

He skinned an elephant with a trunk as big as a palmyra?

He, the god of Thiruppazhanam, is praised by all. 

O bee with bright wings

won’t you be a messenger and tell him

that I am tired and think only of him.



117. O fragrant breeze, fresh and sweet!

Many devotees worship and praise the god of Thiuppazhanam, 

saying that it is his sacred place. 

He was not welcomed for the sacrifice of Daksha

but his wife Uma fought with Shiva

and went to her father’s sacrifice by herself.

Isn’t Shiva, the decider of the fate for all, playing with my life? 



118. He is moksha for those on the earth,

for the sacred faultless Brahmins, 

and for the gods of the sky.

Devotees go and worship the god of Thiruppazanam

singing songs with ragas.

Can I forget him even at the time

when my eyes close at end my life?



119. O white herons with red legs,

you wander all over looking for food 

wading along the wide ocean rolling with waves.

I don’t know what to do—

the god of Thiruppazanam surrounded with beautiful groves 

stole my round bangles.

Won’t he give me his fragrant kondrai garland?



120. O beautiful herons,

you embrace your beloved mates, 

swim and reach the shore of the ocean.

He the god of Thiruppazanam with flourishing fields

where the songs that praise him never stop.

He burned the three strong forts of the Rakshasas in the sky.

His chest is adorned with many garlands.

Will he love me, spoil my beauty and  leave me?



121. O puuvai birds with voices as sweet as the prattling of babies,

you fly over the banner of Shiva marked with a bull.

He is the beloved of the daughter of Himalaya

whose mouth is red as a kovai fruit,

the god of Thiruppazanam where the Kaviri river

brings to its mouth jewels and pearls in its abundant flow.

I am searching for him—time moves slowly for me. 



122. Brahma with a swan on his banner

and Vishnu sleeping on Adisesha

worship Shiva, the god of Thiruppazanam

with a deer in his hand 

and a snake tied around his waist.

All the world says he will remove the karma 

of those devoted to him. 

I am a thief, will I lose my thick bangles for him?



123. The god of Thiruppazanam

where swans that have soft white cotton-like feathers

fly all around as they cry out

cheated me, stole my bangles 

and does not come to see me. 

He is the god of Apputhi Adihal

who made fire sacrifices to remove a fearful famine.

He, the divine one,

adorned the hair of Apputhi with flowers.

----------------


Padiham 13. Thiruvaiyaru 

 
124. I have not overcome my desire for the world.

When beggars came and asked for arms

I did not give anything.

I listened to the immoral words of the Jains 

and was fascinated by them.

Now, longing to become your devotee

and reach your pure lotus feet,

I have come to Aiyaru to save myself

under your divine feet. 



125. He has a beautiful body like red coral,

and wears shining earrings. 

He shares half of his body with Uma with round bangles 

and has a waist like a creeper that embraces its branches. 

His thick jaṭa is adorned with fresh beautiful kondrai flowers.

I became the devotee of Aiyaru, place of lovely coral,

and am released from the sorrows the world. 



126. You are near me.

you are far from me,

you are my friend,

your garments shine like pure gold,

you wear white ashes,

you are a diamond,

you are beautiful,

a remedy for the troubles of all the gods in the sky.

I became the devotee of you, the god of Aiyaru,

and escaped the desires of the world.



127. You are the fire at the end of the universe,

you abide inside the hearts of those who think of you always,
you protect us and you are moksha for us,

you are the voice of your worshipers,

you were the pillar of fire when Vishnu and Brahma looked

for your head and feet, 

and you are adorned with the cool moon.

I am your slave, O god of Aiyaru.



128. You have a beautiful jaṭa,

and in the midst of that jaṭa the cool moon floats.

You, the clever one ride a bull

and burned the three forts of the Rakshasas.

You, the master of all people and all the worlds,

wandered carrying the skull of Brahma and begged.

You are the god whom all yearn to attain, 

O god of Aiyaru. 



129. You are the ocean,

you are fire,

you are justice,

you are moksha, 

you are all the places on the earth, 

and the whole world,

you are the people, their bodies and their life.

Except for your name there is no other name that is praised by the world.

Wearing the crescent moon in your hair, 

you are the remover of all sickness.

I am a devotee of the god of Aiyaru

and I am saved. 



130. You are the eyes of all, 

you are the pupils in their eyes, 

you are the thoughts of all,

the meaning of everything,

you are the numbers, the letters and their sounds.

You are the sky and the creator of the Vedas,

you burned the three forts of the Rakshasas in the sky.

I am the devotee of the god of Aiyaru and I will live.



131. You are lightning, 

you are thunder, 

you are the meaning of Vedas, 

you are gold and diamonds,

you are the pearls in the roaring ocean,

and you are the light that Vishnu and Brahma could not find.

You are the greatest.

I am a devotee of the god of Aiyaru

and so I survive.



132. The Kaviri filled with precious corals

flows around Aiyaru.

Many devotees bathe in the river, 

praising the god again and again.

The gods in the sky in all directions

praise the god, praying,

“You are our dear god!”.

I am a devotee of the god of Aiyaru and I am saved. 



133. He crushed Ravana with his toe under Kailasa mountain

when Ravana tried to dig it up.

He is praised by the world surrounded with oceans as “Nandi.”

I am a devotee of the lord of Aiyaru surrounded by mountains

and I survive. 

--------------


Padiham 14. Podu—General Verses. Dasapuranam—Adaivu. Stories 

 
134. When the gods churned the milky ocean

and poison rose to the sky and spread everywhere,

they were frightened and dropped Adisesha.

They ran to Shiva and begged him,

“Give us your grace and take care of this disaster.”

Shiva took the terrible poison 

and drank it so it would not destroy the world. 

He is the king of kings of all the worlds.



135. When the flood came racing to the sky

and filling all the worlds at the end of the eon,

Brahma and Vishnu thought no god

was equal to Shiva, the highest, and bowed to him.

At that time Shiva grew tall into the sky,

with his feet on the earth. 

O lord you are the ancient one and our only refuge.



136. He is the lord abiding through stars and the eons,

he is light for the three gods

and the meaning of the six philosophies.

He is the lord of Vishnu who swallowed all seven worlds,

and he took the form of the dwarf Vamana.

He is our only refuge.



137. When the gods, frightened, went to Shiva

and asked him to help when Taraka

afflicted the mountains, oceans and the seven worlds,

Taraka ran away from Shiva, but the god

chased him and split him apart.

The angry Shiva danced with fire in his hand.

He is our only refuge.



138. When the three Rakshasa forts afflicted the earth and sky,

the gods, unable to oppose him, went and asked Shiva for help.

Shiva took Vishnu for his arrow the snake Vaasuki for his string

and Meru mountain for his bow and shot at the three forts

and they were became ash.

He is our only refuge.



139. When Yama with a blue body, red eyes, white teeth

and red hair came to take the life of the child Markandeya,

who always brought flowers and worshiped Shiva,

the child was afraid and ran away

and Shiva gave Yama moksha taking away his snare. 

Let us worship his ankleted feet.

He is our only refuge.



140. When the gods came to destroy the sacrifice

of the great ascetic Daksha, they were frightened

and Agni, presider over the sacrifice, and the moon

were terrified and stood away. Brahma and Vishnu

asked Daksha to forgive them for any offense.

Our duty is to worship the lord who carries fire

and was victorious at Daksha’s sacrifice.

He is our only refuge.



141. When the lovely Uma playfully closed the two eyes of Shiva,

the world became dark and the god opened his third eye.

The goddess, frightened, took her hands away

and worshiped him and the lord opened his two eyes,

one the sun and the other the moon. He is the light

that has three eyes, and he is our only refuge.



142. Kaama, with flower arrows and a bow of sugarcane

that he took from the forest,

thinking Vishnu and Indra would help him,\

abandoned Shiva and shot his arrow at the lord.

Shiva, angry, opened his third eye

and burned up Kaama, making the frightened gods run away.

He is our only refuge.



143. When Shiva was performing a sacrifice

with a thousand flowers and one flower was missing,

Vishnu plucked out one of his own lotus-like eyes

so the sacrifice could continue. 

Shiva, pleased, gave to Vishnu the powerful discus

that clove the chest of Shailendra.

He is our only refuge.



144. When Ravana was going to Mount Kailasa on his chariot,

the chariot told him, “You are a hero. This is not dharma.”

Ravana the Rakshasa ignored his chariot and hurriedly

dug up the mountain and held it on his shoulders.

Shiva with one toe crushed Ravana’s arms

and made him fall.

My heart dwells only on Shiva’s heroism.

----------------


Padiham 15. Podu Pavanasat Thiruppadihams

 
145. He is the god of all the pilgrimages

of his devotees who are beyond desire. 

He is the precious coral of Pasur,

the sweet fruit of Thiruchitrambalam.

He, the divine one, cannot be reached by anyone.

He, the best, the king of all pure ones,

is the shining light of Thiruvetriyur

surrounded by the ocean with its waves

and I keep him in my heart.



146. He is the god of Anaikavi,

he, sweet as jaggery, is god of Kanapperur

and he is the sugarcane of Kanur.

He is pure as the conch praised by the gods in the sky.

He is a young elephant, the god of wonderful Kailasam.

I will not forget my lord bright as the sun and moon.



147. On his head, he wears the crescent moon as a garland.

He is the remedy for confusion for all,

the king of Thiruvadigai, the master of Aiyaru.

He is fate, fame and the light the gods search for.

He is our guide, he is wise tender wisdom.

As soon as I think of him, my mind is filled with joy.



148. He is a pearl in Purampuyam, 

he shines as gold in Thiruppuhalur, 

he is the sun that gives light to all the world

and he stays in Urandai in the hills of Thiruchi.

He is eyes for those seeing him in Thirukkazukkundram

where waterfalls roar.

I reached him, the strong lion of Adihai Veerattanam filled with Dharma.



149. He is a bright diamond in Thirukkolakkaa, 

a sage in Thirukkudamukku,

the honey of Alangaadu,

the flower that the gods wear in their hair, 

the sweetness in milk,

and the shining gold of Thirupparaathurai.

I embraced the god who carries a sulam for a weapon

and needs no companion.



150. He is the diamond of Thirumarugalur,

the garland of Thiruvalanjuli,

the Karpagam of Thirukkarukaavur,

the light of the sun that no one can know,

the unborn god of Thriupperuvelur 

and the dear god of Thriuvaanjiyam. 

Those seeing him do not want to leave him.

I hold him in my heart. 



151. He is a beautiful lion king,

the bull that ornaments Rameswaram,

the garlanded beloved of the goddess

dancing in Thirukkutralam

and the auspicious god of Nedungalam surrounded by shaded groves.

I embraced the red-colored lord with love

and keep him in my heart. 



152. He is the moon of evening, 

the auspicious god of Thirumaraikkadu, 

sweet as sugar syrup, 

the god of Thiruvannamalai

who, faultless, stays in Thiruthuruthi surrounded with groves.

I keep the god of the gods in the sky in my heart lovingly. 



153. He with sacred ash on his arms

is the light of Chotrutthurai,

the pure jewel of Thiruthuruthi, 

the god of Thiruppazanam on the riverbank, 

the large jewel in Thiruvaalavay, 

moonlight in Thiruneythanam.

I worship him, the bull, remover of my birth. 



154. He is the pure god of Thirupputhur,

the fighting bull of Thruppuvanam,

the tender shoot of Thirumizalai, 

and the knower of the Vedas of Thiruvelvikkudi.

He, the ancient one, the god of Podiya mountain,

burned the three forts of the evil Rakshasas.

I keep him, the god of Thirumaathur,

the remedy for everything, in my heart. 



155. He is the first one on the earth, 

he rides a strong white bull,

he has the color of the red sky in the evening, 

and he destroyed the valor of Ravana.

If devotees worship him in their hearts,

bathing him with pure water, 

praise him with devotional poems

and bow to him, saying, “you are our master,”

their karma will be destroyed. 

--------------


Padiham 16. Thiruppuhalur

 
156. His color is red, 

he wears a sacred white thread on his chest, 

carries a dark young deer in his hand

and wears sounding anklets. 

If people trust him, he is their true god

and if do not think he is real, he is false for them. 

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 



157. Shiva rides on the white bull who is Vishnu,

his jaṭa shines like lightning,

he shares half his body with Uma

whose forehead is like the crescent moon, 

he wears an elephant skin

and he has a snake tied around his waist.

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 



158. The crescent moon ornaments his long jaṭa.

he embraces Uma his dark-haired wife.

If someone does not have a good mind,

and is unwilling to change his evil ways,

he will not approach that person.

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 



159. On his chest he wears a garland of Rudraksha beads,

he has a snake tied around his waist

and the crescent moon is the garland on his head.

Every day he wanders, carrying the skull of Brahma, and begs for food.

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 



160. He fought with Yama to save Markandeya’s life, 

he skinned the murderous sharp-tusked elephant

as his wife Uma looked on terrified

and wore the skin on his body as a garment.

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 



161. Shiva with his third eye burned Kama 

whose banner carries the image of a fish,

and he wears the skin of an elephant.

Devotees following the right path praise him.

He with matted hair is the god of Puhalur ruled by king Bhuman.



162. With his feet Shiva kicked Yama to save Markandeya,

he destroyed the sacrifice of Daksha

when he did not respect him, 

he cut off the heads and hands of the gods

when they supported Daksha and he made sun blind. 

He with matted jaṭa is the god of Thiruppuhalur. 



163. Shiva wearing on his head a skull garland

burned the three forts of the Rakshasas

with the arrow that he chosen.

Ganga flows in the broad jaṭa

of that lord of Thiruppuhalur. 



164. Shiva rose as a tall pillar of fire

while Brahma and Vishnu, frightened,

worshiped him with joined hands.

He wears a garland of the bones of his good devotees

and a kondrai garland.

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 



165. Shiva’s throat became black

when he drank the poison from the ocean of milk.

With his toe he pushed down Kailasa

when Ravana, king of Lanka, came on his chariot,

and he cut off his ten heads.

He gave half of his body to his wife Uma

who controls her five senses.

He is the god of Thiruppuhalur with matted hair. 

-------------


Padiham 17. Thiruvarur Araneri

 
166. However hot a fire may be, it will not burn us.

He will give us moksha even if things are wrong.

He carries a bright trident whose blades look like three fires

and his color is red as fire.

He is the god of Thiruvarur, 



167. Shiva is heroic,

he wears a snake around his waist, 

and shares his body with his wife Uma.

He takes responsibility for his devotees, 

He wears an ornament that makes the eyes of others sparkle.

He is the god of Thiruvarur



168. Shiva, red as a lotus, with long jaṭa,

brings misfortune to evil people.

He sleeps with his wife 

whose hair swarms with bees, 

he has a dark throat, 

and the unwinking gods worship him,

the god of Thiruvarur.



169. Shiva opened his eye and burned Kama,

he carried Ganga when she flowed down to the earth, 

he destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas,

and he removes the sins of his devotees, 

he, the god of Thiruvarur.



170. Shiva carried the skull of Brahma

and begged for food,

he wears a lion-skin loincloth,

and he removes the karma of his devotees.

The god of Thiruvarur gives his grace to his worshipers, 

. 



171. Unceasingly he dances,

the sound of his anklets never stops,

his ganas sing in the evening as it becomes dark,

and, as he dances, he wears a snake for an ornament,

he, the god of Thiruvarurur.



172. Shiva embraces Uma, understanding her thoughts,

he sings in the evening and on all the streets, 

he dances in all parts of Thiruvarur

and when devotees reach out to him for help

he removes their karma.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



173. The cool bright crescent moon 

and kondrai flowers are his garlands

and his temple is the hearts of those who worship him

in the morning and evening.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



174. His hair shines like lightning in the sky,

his chest is golden, the sacred ashes on his body

are the color of the bull on which he rides,

his body is the color of the milky ocean,

his feet are the color of the red sun in the morning.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.



175. His jaṭa is golden,

the gods in the sky, kings and his ganas 

worship him night and day 

to receive his sacred grace. 

This is the nature of the god of Thiruvarur.



176. When Ravana took the sky chariot of Kuberan,

Shiva fought with him, defeated him

and later gave him a sword.

His throat is dark because he drank the poison 

that came from the milky ocean. 
He, the god of Thiruvarur, gives his grace to all.

--------------


Padiham 18. Potu—General Verses

 
177. His only thoughts are to save his devotees,

his only home is Kailasa mountain, 

his unique ornament is the crescent moon in his jaṭa,

he has only the skull of Brahma in his hand,

and he rides only on his white bull. 



178. The gods worship only his two feet,

he wears two earrings, 

he has two forms, male and female, 

and he carries an axe and a small deer.

These are the various two things he has.



179. He has three eyes,

his trident has three leaf-shaped blades, 

he carries a bow, arrows and a string in his hand

and he burned the three forts of the Raksasas.



180. He has four faces, 

he creates the four parts of human birth,

his bull has four feet, 

and he sings all the four Vedas. 



181. His snake has five heads,

he has controlled his five senses,

he burned Kama who had five arrows

and he dances five dances. 



182. He created the six Upanishads, 

his son Murugan has six faces,

the bees that swarm on his garland have six legs

and he eats food with the six tastes.



183. He created the seven epochs,

he created the seven oceans,

he rules the seven worlds

and he created the seven kinds of music. 



184. He has eight excellent qualities, 

he wears eight kinds of flowers, 

he has eight arms, 

and he created the eight directions.



185. He gave nine doors to the human body,

his sacred thread has nine strands,

his jaṭa is divided into nine parts

and he created the nine continents of the world.



186. His snake has ten teeth

attached to ten gums,

he destroyed Ravana crushing and making fall his ten heads

and his devotees have ten duties.

--------------


Padiham 19. Thiruvarur

 
187. He carries a sulam,

his eight mountain-like arms are smeared with beautiful kunkumam,

he shares half of his body with Uma whose voice is sweet as milk

and he stays under a banyan tree.

I saw him in Thiruvarur



188. He was wandering on the street,

begging for food with the skull of Brahma,

carrying a shining flag of heron feathers

and wearing a lion-skin loincloth.

I saw him in Thiruvarur.



189. He is moksha that is hard to attain

and he is the path to moksha.

He destroys his enemies and is victorious in war.

I saw him with his long garlands in Thiruvarur

where women with arms supple as bamboo

wear cool sandal paste on their breasts. 



190. He rides a bull, 

eight ganas follow him when he goes in procession,

he burned his enemies’ forts, 

he wears sacred ashes,

he stays in the burning ground,

and Ganga flows in his long jaṭa.

I saw Shiva the supreme one in Thiruvarur.



191. The highest lord wearing white bones

goes around all the great cities riding on his bull.

He stays happily in the beautiful temple 

of the ancient city of Thiruvarur 

where fragrant kavi flowers bloom shedding pollen.

I saw him in Thiruvarur. 



192. He wears the gold ornament that I gave him,

the crescent moon is the ornament in his jaṭa, 

he wears a red silky garment that has the color of evening,

and he holds a small deer in his hand.

I saw him in Thiruvarur. 



193. The white crescent white moon adorns his jaṭa, 

he wears the hide of the elephant that he skinned

frightening his white-bangled wife Uma, 

he is like the fire at the end of the world,

he the clever one rides on a chariot yoked to the Vedas.

I saw him in Thiruvarur. 



194. He does not go to wicked people,

he dances in the night when everyone is asleep,

he brightens the hearts of his devotees when they are sad, 

and he is the light of wisdom.

I saw him in Thiruvarur.



195. On his chest he wears a fragrant kondrai garland, 

he embraces Ganga whose cool water is abundant, 

and he drank the poison from the milky ocean

so that the gods would survive and have nectar.

I saw him in Thiruvarur.



196. He has long arms and divine lotus-like feet.

and no one knows all his forms.

He plays the veena and kinkini ornaments jingle on his legs

as he dances in the burning ground.

I saw the faultless one in Thiruvarur.



197. He pushed down the mountain Kailasa with his toe

when Ravana carried it and made Ravana’s eyes bleed 

so the blood poured over his chest.

He wears sandal paste and white sacred ashes on his chest. 

I saw him in Tiruvarur.

-------------------


Padiham 20. Thiruvarur

 
198. My only thought has been to see you.

You entered me and I placed your ankleted feet in my heart.

Do not go away from me,

god of Thiruvarur where the high flags

on the tops of palaces touch the crescent moon.



199. You are the god of flourishing Thiruvarur

where falai, ceel and varaal fish swarm in deep water.

You dance to musical instruments

and are as dear to me as my eyes.

I came leaving all the desires that I have for this world,

yearning only to be your devotee.

Forgive me and remove all my faults.



200. You are god of Thiruvarur

where dancers with diamonds on their breasts,

singers and dancers from heaven, 

devotees worshiping with love,

the many ganas of Rudra,

and people of various sects—

Digambaras, Shaivas, Pasubadars and Kabaalis—

all wander on the streets.



201. Your devotees happily come and worship you 

joining their hands.

You are virtuous, you are pure,

I have worshiped your golden feet,

There is nothing I want that I do not have,

god of Thiruvarur where the trees 

shed many sweet fruits -- coconut, kamugu fruits, bananas, 

mangoes and pomegranates.



202. Your chest is smeared with sacred ashes.

Ganga flows and the crescent moon shines in your long jaṭa.

I reached your feet and all my karma is destroyed,

O god of Thiruvarur

where bees and dragonflies play on the flowers 

as honey drops from their petals.



203. Devotees from the whole world come happily, 

worship you and dance and their karma is destroyed.

There in Thiruvarur women bathe, plunging in the water

as people sprinkle sacred water on their hair.

You are the god of that Thiruvarur.



204. You shot your arrows and burned the three forts of the Rakshasas,

How can you be apart from me?

I will not leave you even by mistake, O god of Thiruvarur 

where different paddies—chennel, pirampuri, kandasali and thippiyam—

grow in cool fields and are harvested.



205. It is the nature of the world

that creatures are born, get sick and die.

I do not want to be born again.

I want only to do good deeds, 

without desire, enmity and anger in my heart

and be your slave, O god of Thiruvarur.



206. I wandered wanting to have always in my heart

the god with thick jaṭa where the crescent moon shines.

I will never allow him to go from my mind,

O god of Thiruvarur

where a male crab is happy when the female enters its hole.



207. When Shiva stood as a flaming pillar, 

Brahma on a lotus and Vishnu who split the chest of Hiranya

could not find his head or feet,

but I searched and found him in the hearts of his devotees.

They sing “Pallaandu” and worship him in song.

He is the god of Thiruvarur.

----------------


 Thevaaram - Thirunavukkarasar  
 

Padiham 21. Thiruvarur  208 -217

Padiham 22. Kovil   218-228

Padiham 23. Kovil  229-238

Padiham 24. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam  239-248

Padiham 25. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam 249 -258

Padiham 26. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam 259 -268

Padiham 27. Thiruvadigai Veerattanam 269- 277

Padiham 28. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam.278 -283

Padiham 29. Thiruchemponpalli. 284 - 293

Padiham 30. Thirukkazippalai  294 -303

Padiham 31. Thirukkadavur Virattam 304 -313

Padiham 32. Thiruppayatrur 314-323

Padiham 33. Thirumaraikkaadu. 324 - 333

Padiham 34. Thirumaraikkadu 334 - 343

Padiham 35 Thiruvidaimaruthur 344 -353 

Padiham 36. Thiruppazhanam 354-363

Padiham 37. Thiruneythanam 364- 373

Padiham 38. Thiruvaiyaru 374 - 383

Padiham 39. Thiruvaiyaru 384 - 393

Padiham 40. Thiruvaiyaru 394 -403

------------


Padiham 21. Thiruvarur

 
208. The god of Thiruvarur comes on a procession

on Thiruvadirai day in a chariot that is covered with a canopy

studded with diamonds and pearls, as his devotees

fan him with golden fans.

Women, men and sages follow him.

It is a scene that stands in the minds of all. 

That is true.



209. If people from near and distant places, 

good and bad or sick,

worship him and say, “You are auspicious, a jewel, gold, dear one.

god of gods will come near to them 

on Thiruvadirai day.

That is true.



210. On Thiruvadirai day, 

on the streets of Thiruvarur

people hang white flags, 

decorate the canopy with shining jewels, 

and hang pearl and coral garlands.

This is Adirai day of the lord of ancient Thiruvarur, That is true.



211. Devotees join together,

praise the divine qualities of Shiva,

speak opposing each other

and compete to do service for the god. 

The gods from the sky come all the time

on Adirai day and worship the beautiful lord.

That is true.



212. Conches shining like the moon are blown,

and drums are beaten at the Thiruvadirai festival. 

The sound of anklets spreads everywhere.

The male peacock hearing the loud sound of the festival,

thinks it is thunder and assuming rain will fall, begins to dance.

This is Thiruvadirai day, that is true. 



213. The devotees cry, are scared

and look around everywhere.

They hit their heads on the walls,

and worship the lord saying,

“He is our god, our father.”

It is Thiruvadirai day, that is true.



214. The devotees think of the divine feet 

of the lord whose mouth is like red coral. 

Women join their husbands, filled with love, 

and play with them.

This is the day Indra, other gods and Siddhas come

and celebrate the festival of the matchless god.

This is the Thiruvadirai day, that is true. 



215. The gods from the sky come,

worshiping Shiva and walking in the procession. 

Apsaras with beautiful bamboo-like arms 

descend from heaven and walk behind them.

Devotees wearing sacred ashes

surround them, singing the praise of the god.

This is the way Shiva goes in procession.

This is Thiruvadirai day. 

That is true.



216. Devotees go in procession for Shiva, worshiping,

and saying, “The days that we do not worship you are bad days,

but the days that we praise you are happy days.

Help us always to serve you.”

This how the dear lord Shiva comes in procession.

This is the Thiruvadirai festival.

That is true.



217. At the Thiruvadirai festival

the singing and praising of Shiva do not stop. 

The people of the city see the procession

and speak about the grace of Shiva 

worshiped all over the world. 

This is the beauty of the Thiruvadirai festival.

That is true. 

----------------


Padiham 22. Kovil

 
218. Shiva dances wearing red jata

in which the bright crescent moon floats. 

His throat is dark from drinking the poison

that came from the milky ocean. 

He dances carrying bright fire 

that removes the darkness of the night

in the dancing hall in Thillai

surrounded with groves where clouds float.



219. In Shiva’s jata the beautiful crescent moon shines

and Ganga flows. He rides on a bull

and shares his body with Uma,

his wife ornamented with precious jewels.

Wearing sacred ashes, he dances with fire in his hand,

in the famous hall in Thillai

surrounded with fragrant flower groves.



220. Shiva has long jata, 

where the bright crescent moon shines. 

He is smeared with sandal paste and sacred ashes.

He begs for food with Brahma’s skull and eats it.

He dances carrying fire in his hands.

His anklets resound in Thillai surrounded with fragrant flowers

as his devotees praise him. 



221. Shiva shares half his body with his wife

whose eyes are darkened with kohl

and with a waist like a snake,

and a forehead like the cool moon.

Shiva dances in the sacred hall in Thillai 

where fertile paddy grows.

He dances moving his hands and carrying fire.



222. Shiva created the Vedas,

and his jata is adorned with the cool shining crescent moon.

His servant Bhudams escort him

and he wears the skin of tiger.

White conch ear rings hang from his ears. 

He dances in the sacred hall in Thillai 

with fire in his hands 



223. He shares half of his body with his wife,

and in his jata the crescent moon shines. 

The supreme god dances expertly on the earth.

He dances carrying shining fire in his hand in Thillai 

where clouds float in the sky,

revered by all people as a divine place



224. His jata shines with the bright light of the crescent moon.

Devotees see him wearing a mighty elephant’s skin

in the dancing hall of Thillai 

surrounded with gardens swarming with happy bees.

Devotees worship and see him dancing 

carrying hot fire in his hands.



225. Shiva, the highest god, the creator of the Vedas, 

carries an axe in his hands.

On his jata the crescent moon is bright. 

He, our god and chief, removes all the troubles

of those praising him.

He dances carrying fire in his hands as his anklets resound 

in the sacred hall in Thillai 

where farmers save water for paddy.



226. In the festival at Thillai,

devotees can see Shiva depicted as an old man or a young man,

with the bright crescent moon on his head,

dancing as his long jata hangs down. 

The lord is in his devotees’ hearts 

and has his wife as half of his body.

He dances in the hall in Thillai carrying hot fire in his hands. 



227. In famous Thillai that is praised by all the world, 

Shiva with a dark throat, 

his jata adorned with cool bright moon, 

is seen by all as a young man and an old man. 

He kicked Yama for Markandeya

and has a dark throat and rides a bull.

He dances carrying hot fire in his hand. 



228. When foolish Ravana sped

carrying Kailasa mountain, the abode of Shiva,

the god put his finger on Ravana’s arms and crushed him. 

Devotees can see the wonder of Shiva dancing 

carrying hot fire in his hand in the divine hall of Thillai 

surrounded with thick dark groves

where the moon floats in the sky.

----------------


Padiham 23. Kovil

 
229. You are the highest, divine yogi.

I do not sing and praise you as your true devotees do.

What should I do to be your devotee?

Do not disgrace me.

You, the ancient one, our moksha, 

you are our chief and you dance in the dancing hall in Thillai.

O lord, I am your slave and I have come to Thillai to see you dancing. 



230. I do not sing songs thinking of you as your devotees do.

You share your body with Uma with bamboo-like arms.

You are the divine bright light and cannot be known by anyone.

O dancer, you shine and dance in the dancing hall in faultless Thillai

and I come in your presence to see you dancing.



231. I have not heard about your grace.

If you help me join your devotees and listen to your grace,

I will keep your feet in my heart. 

I will see you dancing with your wife together

in flourishing Thillai where falai fish jump in ponds.



232. O father, if you do not remove

the desires in my mind without confusing me 

and make me a good slave to serve you, what should I do?

Should I search and worship the feet of the god

dancing night and day in the dancing hall in Thillai

where Brahmins do not stop performing fire sacrifices?



233. Even when I wandered wherever I wanted thinking of your feet,

I sang your praise and danced, joining your devotees. 

O lord, you dance in flourishing Thillai

circled with groves where bees swarm singing songs with ragas.

You are praised by devotees from the eight directions.



234. I see you dancing and sing and praise your grace

and call to you, “You are my murthi!”

You are the first one of the three gods, Brahma, Vishnu and Rudra.

You take away the troubles of your worshipers.

O dancer, I came here to see you dancing in the hall of Thillai.



235. You are the ancient murthi of all.

Give me your grace so that I will not tell any lies.

I will be your slave, O highest lord! 

I came to flourishing Thiruchitrambalam 

the most famous place in the world 

to see you dancing.



236. My mind gets confused, fascinated by the bad desires of life.

What can I do? You have a dark throat.

I am your slave and I came to the dancing hall in Thillai

where the sound of Vedas does not stop.



237. You have not made me pure,

and you did not make me to think of good things.

You cheat me, O lord of the gods in the sky.

O lord, you are the dancer 

in the dancing hall of flourishing Thillai.



238. Vishnu swallowed the earth, 

and Brahma stays on his lotus.

They wanted to see your divine form

but they could not see your feet and head 

when you stood touching the sky with your feet in the earth. 

O highest lord, you dance with music 

in the dancing hall in Thillai

------------------


Padiham 24. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam

 
239. Shiva skinned the iron-colored elephant

iron and covered himself with it.

He shares his body with his wife whose words are as sweet as sugarcane.

He has in his jata Ganga above whose water bees swarm

and his head is adorned with flower garlands.

He is the god of Adihaiveerattanam. 



240. He wears the white crescent moon

that is bent like a branch.

His beautiful jata is decorated with kondrai flowers.

He bent his bow and destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas

with his strong arrows are very strong.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



241. All the gods in the sky worship his feet

as he rides on the bull.

In his jata he has the moon

and he wears white ashes and sandalwood.

He has a snake tied around his waist.

He, the lord of Adihaiveerattanam,

stays in the hearts of his worshipers.



242. His throat is black and has burned Kama

with his third eye. 

He takes away the troubles of his devotees.

He recites the Vedas and bees swarm in his kondrai garland.

He, the lord of Adihaiveerattanam,

stays in the hearts of his devotees.



243. White ashes are smeared on his chest

and he carries an axe.

He wears a garland and bangles and stays with his wife.

He rides a bull.

Ganga flows in his beautiful jata,

the god of Adihaiveerattanam.



244. The gods worship his feet reciting the Vedas.

He has a thick and bright jata.

His wife has curly hair and round breasts.

He has a divine body,

the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



245. Wearing a sacred thread on his body

and with a snake on his waist,

he holds in his hand the trident

and a sword in his other hand.

He wears kondrai flowers

and Vishnu is happy to share his body.

His throat is blackened with poison.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



246. He holds a snake in his hand

and recites the four Vedas.

In his jata, he has the moon 

that flows on the sky,

and his wife is a part of him.

Devotees sing the praise

of the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



247. Devotees praise him and sing,

and Ganga, flooding with water, is in his jata.

He has a dark throat and takes away

the troubles of his devotees.

He, the lord of Adihaiveerattanam,

carries a snake in his hand.



248. His wife has a mouth red as a tondai fruit

and a waist as thin as a thudi drum

and hips as wide as the ocean.

He has lovely jata and round bracelets.

He stays on the bank of the Kedila river

where kayal fish swim.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.

-----------------


Padiham 25. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam

 
249. In his jata, the crescent moon floats

and he stays in sacred places of pilgrimage.

He with the crescent moon in his jata

is close to his devotees

but is far from people if they do not want him.

He gives the light of wisdom in my heart.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



250. He recites the four Vedas

and he stays in my heart.

He is the lord of Kudal city

and wears a kondrai flower in his jata

and white ashes on his body.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



251. His devotees worship him

with flowers dripping with nectar

to rid themselves of their karma.

He is one thing and many things,

praised by the gods.

He wears as a dress the skin of an elephant.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



252. When people suffer because the 96 things

afflict their bodies they go to the god

and ask him to take away their suffering.

He helps them, freeing them from their afflictions.

He, the lord of Adihaiveerattanam, is their friend.



253. He is in the hearts of devotees

worshiping him with love.

He wears a snake in his jata.

He married the daughter of Kailsasa mountain

who shivered in fear when he took the skin from the elephant.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



254. We reach the lord singing his praise.

He skinned the elephant

and half of his body is his wife

with a thin waist, wide hips and long curly hair.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



255. O heart, do good deeds.

He, the pure one, has Uma as half his body

and he, smeared with white ashes,

is like a bright shining light.

He is the beginning and the end,

the god of Adihaiveerattanam.



256. He shot his arrow and burned Kama.

He comes into the hearts of his devotees night and day.

He is the god of Adihaiveerattanam

fenced with beautiful alli flowers.



257. Vishnu and Brahma searched for Shiva

and could not find him,

but if you worship him with your whole heart

and want to see him, he will come into your heart as Om.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



258. He has made me his slave.

He pushed Ravana’s head into the earth with his toe

when Ravana dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it.

He wears a fragrant garland

and Uma is half of his body.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam. 

-------------


Padiham 26. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam

 
259. I praised you every day, saying,

 “You are our friend, 

you are our king, our master.

You are the ancient god, 

you share your body with your wife Uma,.

You are the great sage.”

O lord, you are pure gold and you are a coral hill.

Praising you always, I want to see your divine lotus feet.

O dear friend, I am tired now and have not seen you,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



260. My body is a false thing made like a blanket.

It will become rotten and be destroyed

I do not live as a true person. 

My five senses do not allow me to lead a good life. 

I want to see your red lotus feet 

and am tired and have not seen them,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



261. I do not live following morals.

I do not live a pure life everyday.

Even though I am learned, I do not understand everything.

I do not keep you in my heart.

You are bright and a light!

O ancient lord, 

I long to see your lotus feet but have not seen them. 

I wander everywhere and I am tired,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



262. I do not see any path to find you.

I fall into bad karma and the desires of my body.

You have a jewel-like dark throat! 

Give me your grace to see your feet and worship you,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



263. I am living in this body that follows the desires of of five senses,

I suffer and am afraid of living in this world.

You helped me escape from that desire, 

showing me the five-letter manthra, “Namashivaya.”

I am not afraid to live now,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



264. The crescent moon floats in your jata.

My heart goes back and forth 

jumping from thing one to another 

like the rope of a swing.

I am like a rope that is cut and falls to the ground,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



265. I have not destroyed my passion.

I have not destroyed my love for women.

I only able to open my eyes, smeared with kohl,

but I am unable to open the eyelids of my feelings

and understand the world.

I innocently collected my bad karma.

I could not destroy all of my bad karma and I am tired,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



266. I suffer like a punnai tree

in the middle of a village assembly hall.

I do not understand my life and do not know you.
I do not keep you in my heart.

I am worried that Yama will come and take me

and then I will be born again,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



267. You ride on a bull,

My life is full of sickness.

I am plunged into many troubles.

I do not have any courage. 

I am not faultless.

I do not approach you so that

I can see your beautiful lotus feet,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



268. Vishnu, husband of Lakshmi

and the divine Brahma with heads in all directions, 

were not able to see your feet or head

even though they tried in many ways. 

O lord, you are unique and you are formless.

Give your grace so that I can see your divine feet,

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.

--------------


Padiham 27. Thiruvadigai Veerattanam.

 
269. He wears a tiger skin.

He has tied a snake for a belt.

He has the shining white moon in his jata.

He gave half of his body to his wife

with a mouth red like a thondai fruit

and a waist like thudi drum.

He is the god of Adihaiveerattanam

surrounded by the Kedila river.



270. When Shiva put Ganga in his jata,

Uma found out and was angry with him.

Shiva sang the Sama Veda to console her

and danced to the raga of those songs.

He is the god of Adihaiveerattanam

surrounded by the Kedila river.



271. When Vishnu, Brahma and Indra sent Kama 

to stop the meditation of Shiva 

Kama shot an arrow to disturb Shiva’s tapas.

Shiva was angry, opened his third eye and burned Kama

so the other gods could not see him.

Shiva’s arrow destroyed the three forts of the Raksasas. 

He is the god of Adihaiveerattanam

surrounded by the Kedila river.



272. In his left hand he holds a deer.

Half of his body is his beautiful wife Uma.

In his jata is the crescent moon

floating on the red sky.

On his waist is tied a snake that spits fire.

He walks in the hearts of his devotees

thinking he is playing,

the god of Adihaiveerattanam.



273. Adihaiveerattanam is surrounded by flourishing fields

where lined varal fish swim.

There, farmers cutting the paddy

stand on the boundaries of the fields.

A fox may try to take a varal fish but it cannot.

In the same way, people wish to have a good life

but they may not be able to.



274. He wears sacred ashes from the burning ground,

he begs everywhere for food

and he rides on a beautiful white bull.

I want to follow him but I stay here.

I hope he will take me as his slave

and save me from birth on this earth,

he the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



275. He the lord of Adihaiveerattanam

wears ashes on his forehead,

has a dark blue throat,

and has Uma as half his body.

He recited the four Vedas and the six Upanishads,

he the lord with the crescent moon and the Ganga in his hair.



276. He cannot be seen, but he is in the heart,

he cannot be changed and no one one can join him.

He has unlimited greatness and has no birth,

and we cannot imagine being without him.

He saved me from the five shameless senses.

He is not a man or a woman,

the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.



277. Ravana went to Mount Kailasa

and tried to dig it up. Parvathi saw him

and was afraid. Shiva pressed the mountain

with his toe, crushing all his ten heads.

He is the lord of Adihaiveerattanam.

----------------


Padiham 28. Thiruvadihaiveerattanam. 

 
278. I did not search for the lord.

I wasted time and wandered. 

I got sick, coughed all the time

and could not think of anything.

I am like a woman who does not cook in the morning

and looks for food in the afternoon.

I have not lived as your dear devotee.

O god of Adihaiveerattanam.



279. O lord with a dark throat,

I was afraid of Yama who is like the hot sun.

I went to bathe in many spots on the great ocean.

I climbed many high mountains.

O Pinynyaga, I have not find any path to remove

the sufferings in my life, O god of Adihaiveerattanam. 



280. If anyone say the word, “God,”

we your devotees tremble and worship you

saying that we do not know our faults

and we want to worship your feet.

But, O god of Adihaiveerattanam,

I am ignorant and I think I am a chief.

I cannot remove the results of my old karma.



281. He abides in Adigai Veerattanam

where on the bank of Kedila river

the palm trees shed their fronds

in the middle of the fields.



282. When Indra and the other gods

churned the ocean of milk and poison came out of it,

Shiva drank the poison, turning his throat dark blue.

He stays in Adigai Veerattanam

on the bank of the Kedila river

where clouds the color of the lord’s throat float.



283. When Ravana dug up Kailasa mountain

terrifying Parvathi, Shiva pressed it down with his toe.

Then Ravana played his veena, making Shiva happy,

and Shiva gave him his grace.

He is lord of Adigai Veerattanam.

-------------------


Padiham 29. Thiruchemponpalli.

 
284. If devotees do many vratams and suffer to see him, 

the god of Thiruchemponpalli is easy for them to know.

He is a cheater and can’t be known even by the gods in the sky

but he is honey and nectar in the hearts of the wise devotees

if they hold him in their heart? 



285. The god of Thiruchemponpalli is simple and faultless. 

He is truth and he shows all good paths following the Veda to his devotees. 

He is a wick in our body and a lamp in our heart. 

He is pure and has red color and a dark throat.



286. He is white, black and red.

He is the light in the hearts of the gods.

He is in the heart of Vishnu

who is praised by all the world over the eons.

He removes the darkness in the hearts

of the faultless sages with no wickedness.

He is the lord of Thiruchemponpalli.



287. He is father and mother for all.

He is the god and lord of wisdom.

If the gods in the sky join together

and recite the Rig Veda many times,

praising Shiva and saying, ”You are our father,”

they will become, “Shivam” (auspiciousness) in their hearts.

He is the god of Thiruchemponpalli.



288. Ganga flows on his jata, 

He is the friend of all if they love him.

He has his wife Uma as half of his part.

He has a snake tied on his waist.

He wears sacred ashes on his forehead.

He is the god of Thiruchemponpalli

surrounded by lotuses on the flourishing fields. 



289.You think life in the world is a true thing

and live happily on the earth.

Even though time is passing, 

you have not stopped your evil acts.

If you leave the desires of this life,

and remove your faults and anger,

he will be your goodness and your tapas. 

He is the god of Thiruchemponpalli.



290. Our father, the god of Thiruchemponpalli,

was worshiped by Brahma

who stays on a lotus and creates everything, 

and by Vishnu when the god stood as a fire pillar 

while all the gods worshiped him the whole day.

He is worshiped by all the world at all three times of the day.



291. He wears a kondrai garland in his dark jata

where the crescent moon shines and a snake lives.

He has Ganga flowing in his jata.

He is justice and gives justice to all.

All the eighteen ganas and all things

in the sky and earth sing his praise.

He is the god of Thiruchemponpalli.



292. He is worshiped by Brahma, the creator of the Vedas,

the ocean-colored Vishnu 

and the three hundred and sixty ageless rishis who will not be born again.

He is our father and all praise him as god of the gods.

He is the god of Thiruchemponpalli.



293. He taught the four Vedas and the six Upanishads to the rishis. 

He dances as his Ganas sing.

When Ravana dug up and carried Kailasa, the abode of Shiva, 

the god crushed the mountain with his toe as Ravana screamed. 

He rides on a white bull.

He is the god of Thiruchemponpalli.

-------------------


Padiham 30. Thirukkazippalai 

 
294. Shiva gave half of his body to his wife Uma.

He taught knowledge to all.

He keeps fire in his hand.

He sits on the skin of the elephant skin that he flayed.

He carries a yaaz.

Sages worship him placing lotus flowers on his feet.

He keeps the flowing Ganga in his jata.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



295. He gave his grace to his devotees to attain moksha.

He made the rishis do sacrifices.

He created all the ragas so that devotees can sing his praise.

He made his devotees worship him always.

When Vishnu took the form of Vamana 

he helped him measure the world and the sky. 

He has a third eye on his forehead.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean.



296. He made Vamana bow to him,

He made all worship and praise him.

He keeps the crescent moon in his jata.

He is the light of light in all souls,

He gives his grace to all with love for him.

He burned Kama with his third eye.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



297. He taught the precious Vedas and Upanishads to the sages. 

He burned the large three forts of the Rakshasas.

He has the color of fire and red coral. 

He has a dark blue throat.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



298. He carries a strong axe in his hand

and has the bright crescent moon that removes the darkness of the world

in his jata where Ganga flows.

He keeps all the worlds in him.

He is the lord of all the six religions

He has dark throat.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



299. He stays in the hearts of his devotees.

He is in the sacrifices that the gods in the sky perform.

Any sorrow his devotees have he removes.

He dances in the hall in Thillai.

He gives wisdom to people.

He carries an axe in his hand.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



300. He gives moksha to bodies of flesh.

He recited the Vedas and gave them to the sages.

He makes his devotees learn books of knowledge.

He made Ganga flow in his jata.

He gave Vishnu his fighting discus.

He loves to live in the burning ground. 

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



301. He gives buds to kongu plants.

He fights with Yama when he comes to his devotees.

He puts pearls inside conches.

He wears sacred ash.

He taught the Vedas and Upanishads to the sages.

When poison came out of the milky ocean, he drank it. 

He creates night and day.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



302. When Brahma with four heads,

and Vishnu opposed him

he took the form of a pillar of fire.

He kicked Yama to save Markandeya.

He has bright crescent moon in his jata. 

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean. 



303. When Ravana, the king of Lanka 

dug up and carried Kailasa mountain,

Uma was frightened.

Shiva, wearing a sacred thread, the lord of the Vedas,

saw Ravana and laughed at his effort.

In a second he pressed down Kailasa mountain 

with his toe and made the mountain fall.

He is the god of Thirukkazippalai on the shores of the ocean.

--------------


Padiham 31. Thirukkadavur Virattam

 
304. If you want to leave your body,

and the wealth of this world, 

and leave the life that flows like a flood,

you should want to light

the lamp of devotion in your heart and understand god. 

Then the god of Thirukkadavur 

will help you to leave this impure body.



305. You may want to live in this world and enjoy it,

but if Yama, the Dharmaraja staying in the sky,

wants to take it who can stop him?

The only thing to do is to be a devotee, singing songs 

and dancing for the lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam,

the pupil of the of eyes of all.



306. You came into this world in the form of a human 

and live a false life.

You do not understand others.

The lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam 

stays in the hearts of devotees 

if they control their minds and the five senses 

that lead them in evil ways. 



307. The lord of Kadavur Veerattanam is sweet like sugar

for those devotees of the crazy lord

who get up in the morning, take a bath,

sprinkle flowers on him with love, light lamps

and worship him in the proper way. 



308. O lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam!

I am living a shameless life.

There is no one to show me a good life.

Singing your praises, I am like a rooster

that crows in the early morning and stops.

My five senses confuse me and trouble my mind.

I suffer, terrified of the day when Yama will come.



309. O lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam, 

I am living with this contemptible body, 

nourishing it as if I were pouring water on plants.

I do not live a moral life. 

I have not escaped the illusion of life.

My five senses are a net 

and I am caught in them and lead an evil life.

I am a boat that struggles in the ocean of life.



310. O lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam,

I do not know this world is maya.

I am fascinated by this life.

I am like an owl that is a devil.

O Pinnyagan, unborn one,

I do not come to you with love,

but am evil and involved in bad deeds.

I do not have the desire to leave this world.



311. O lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam,

I wasted my life without loving you

like someone pouring water on a useless plant. 

I am an example of the saying, 
“Only experience makes bad people realize 

what is wrong in their life.” 

Why am I living? What can I do?

I do not have any wisdom.

I have nothing to support me.



312. The lord of Kadavur Veerataanam

kicked Yama to save Markandeyan 

because he left fished-eyed women

and became a devotee of Shiva

He did the abhisekam with milk,

good yogurt and ghee for Shiva.

Markandeya did this without any confusion in his mind.



313. The lord of Kadavur Veerattaanam

has the power of Brahma, Vishnu, Rudra, Mahesa and Sadasiva. 

To give his grace to Indra, the other gods and to all the rishis, 

he fought mightily with Ravana and destroyed his strength 

when Ravana was holding Kailasa mountain,

but Shiva gave his grace

when Ravana played his veena and praised him.

-----------------


Padiham 32. Thiruppayatrur

 
314. When the lord of Thirupayatrur

skinned the elephant making its blood flow

and then covered himself with it, 

his wife Uma was scared and

shook her finger at him again and again.

He took the skin off 

and pretended he did not want to wear it.

Then he laughed seeing his wife frightened.



315. Shiva of Thiruppayatrur happily keeps

his wife Uma as half of his body.

He created many eons. 

Making the mountain his bow 

and tying a snake as the rope for the bow,

his eyes red with anger, he shot an arrow

and burned the three forts of the Raksasas. 



316. He gave his grace and taught the Vedas 

to the rishis who believed

they would give them great knowledge.

He is the truth. He dances holding fire.

All lives of the world worship him

and ask him for his grace.

He put the crescent moon in his hair

when the moon was scared of the snake Rahu.



317. The lord of Thiruruppayatrur gave his grace to Arjuna.

He tied the snake around his waist.

He made Chathan his son.

He sang the Sama Veda for the goddess Kali and danced with her.

He made the moon float in his hair to save it

and made Ganga flow in his hair.



318. The lord of Thiruruppayatrur

with an eye in his forehead

matches all the three gods, Ilayashivam, Bogashivam, and Adohaarashivam.

He taught the four Vedas to all the rishis and taught them wisdom.

He is the god of Thiruvadirai day. He is the god of gods.



319. Lord Shiva, the god of Thiruppayatrur 

is the sun, Yama, Varuna, the wind god, the moon and Vayu.

Shiva the father of all dances holding fire in his hand

in the burning ground where Peys live. 

He is the Pinynyagan, our father, our lord

and he always holds fire in his hand. 



320. He is the havis, the ghee for sacrificial fire.

He is an atom and the largest thing in the world.

He takes away the sins of evil people.

He is the highest lord. 

He is lord Brahma, the creator of the world.

Half of his body is his wife Uma 

who has the green color of the ocean.

He is the lord of Thiruppayatrur.



321. He is father, mother, the earth, 

and the father of all on the earth.

He is all the seven worlds.

He stays in the hearts of devotees

who think of him, worshiping him and saying,

“O father, our lord!” He is Shivam in their hearts.



322. The god of Thiruppayatrur helps me remove the desires given by my senses.

He increases my knowledge,

He removes my poverty.

He takes away this birth and future births.

He makes me faultless.

He saves me from doing evil deeds.

He is the joy in my mind.

He takes away my anger.



323. When Ravana wanted to fly over Kailasa,

his charioteer said it was not possible to cross the mountain.

Ravana grew angry, came down to the earth, 

and dug up and took the mountain in his hands.

Shiva came crushed his ten heads,

frightening Uma who was looking on. 

But Shiva was happy when he heard Ravana singing,

forgave him and gave him his grace.

----------------


Padiham 33. Thirumaraikkaadu. 

 
324. Shiva, the beautiful god of Thirumaraikkaadu

is praised by Indra, the gods and all rishis.

He is the light worshiped by all.

His jata is decorated by the moon and Ganga floats in it. 

He is their mantra for all his devotee.



325. He belongs to all countries and is the god of all gods. 

If you want to be released from your sins come and worship him. 

His throat is black and he abides in your heart. 

Vishnu worships him, the god of Thirumaraikkaadu. 



326. The crescent moon floats in his shining jata. 

He wears a kondrai garland.

He is the lord of this life on the earth and other births.

O devotees, do not think this world is for you.

It is a waste to think like that.

Do not think it is grand to live in a big house.

Do not increase your karma. 

Worship the lord of Thirumaraikkaadu. 



327. The god of Thirumaraikkaadu created humanity.

He gave two legs, two beautiful hands, a skeleton, skin,

and two orifices and built it as a house. 

He gave the name Maya to it and gave it life. 



328. He is in the sky and above it also. 

He recites all the Vedas lovingly,

his devotees sing the Vedas and dance.

He is the eyes of everyone in the world

and the light in their eyes.

He is our father. 

People circle him in temples and worship him. 

He is the god of Thirumaraikkaadu. 



329. He carries fire in his hand.

He is the lord of all six religions.

He holds a veena and sings.

He makes his devotees worship his feet. 

He has the moon and Ganga in his bright jata. 

He shares half of his body with his wife Uma. 



330. He himself is music

and he makes his Kinnaras listen to music.

He is the Vedas and recites the Vedas,

putting the light of knowledge in people’s hearts.

He is an unequalled dancer

and lovingly keeps Ganga in his jata.

He has given half of his body to Uma,

he, the god of Thirumaraikkaadu.



331. Seething with anger, Shiva destroyed

the three strong forts of the Raksasas and burned them. 

He takes away the sins of the devotees when they give up

the desires for the wealth on the earth and worship him. 

He is the god of Thirumaraikkaadu.



332. He is the god of all countries.

All gods sing his praise.

Devotees worship him every day

with fragrant flowers and incense

He takes away the sins of those

keeping him in their hearts.

He is the god of Thirumaraikkaadu.



333. When Ravana dug up Kailasa mountain

and carried it with his strong hands.

Parvathi, Shiva’s wife saw and was frightened,

but Shiva crushed all ten heads of Ravana and stopped him.

He is the lord of Thirumaraikkaadu. 

-----------------


Padiham 34. Thirumaraikkadu

 
334. When Ravana stronger than all and afraid of no one

ordered his charioteer to fly over Kailasa mountain,

he refused and Ravana tried to carry Kailasa mountain 

on his shoulders. Shiva saw and crushed his twenty shoulders 

as the gods in the sky the people of the earth looked on terrified.

Shiva’s wife Parvathi was also frightened

but the god of Thirumaraikkaadu told his wife not to be afraid. 



335. Shiva has the crescent moon in his jata

and a snake and tortoise ornamenting his chest.

The beautiful god stays with love

in Thirumaraikkaadu surrounded with ocean

where waves in the clear water dash on the banks. 



336. When Ravana, the strongest of the Raksasas,

ordered his charioteer to fly over Kailasa mountain,

the charioteer could not do it 

and Ravana dug up Kailasa and carried it on his shoulders.

Shiva, laughing, crushed all ten heads of Ravana with one toe

but then gave Ravana his grace as he listened to his music.

Thirumaraikkaadu is the place where the lord Shiva stays. 



337. When Ravana’s charioteer tried to fly over Kailasa mountain,

and Shiva stopped him,

Ravana became angry and asked, “Who stopped us?”

Then he dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it on his shoulders.

but Shiva crushed his ten heads and made him fall to the earth.

He is the god of Thirumaraikkaadu.



338. When Ravana’s chrioteer could not fly over Kailasa mountain,

Ravana became angry and said,

“I am going to dig up Kailasa mountain and carry it.

It is not a hard thing for me.”

As he was going to carry the mountain on his shoulders.

Shiva, the god of Thirumaraikkaadu stopped him

and crushed all Ravana’s heads with his toe. 



339. Surya who shines all day on the earth

shivered and, terrified of Ravana, would not go over Lanka.

Ravana also stopped all the nine planets from going over Lanka.

In his pride, Ravana considered himself very strong 

and dug up Kailasa mountain,

the abode of Shiva with a long jata,

and he tried to carry it on his shoulders.

With one toe, Shiva, the god of Thirumaraikkaadu

crushed all ten heads of Ravana.



340. The king of the Raksasas, Ravana 

thought he was very strong 

because he had ten heads and twenty hands,

but Shiva using one toe crushed all the ten heads of Ravana.

He is the god of Thirumaraikkaadu

where waves filled with pearls dash on the banks. 



341. Ravana, the king of the Raksasas,

thoughtlessly put his hands

under Kailasa mountain to dig it up,

but he could not do it and he lost his strength. 

Shiva’s Bhutas of Thirumaraikkadu saw Ravana and laughed.



342. Ravana had twenty hands and ten heads

and would play the Sama gita, 

but he did not want to play music for Shiva

or worship him with the mantra, “Namashivaya.”

Foolishly, Ravana thought he could carry Kailasa mountain 

but when he tried, Shiva, the god of Thirumaraikkaadu

frightened him and stopped him.



343. Parvathi saw that Shiva had hidden Ganga in his jata,

and had a love fight with him.

At that time, Ravana flying on his chariot

was blocked by Kailasa mountain

and he tried to dig it up and carry it on his shoulders.

Shiva pushed the mountain down with his toe,

crushing the heads of Ravana.

Then Ravana sang praising Shiva,

and Shiva forgave him and gave him his grace.

-----------------


Padiham 35 Thiruvidaimaruthur

 
344. The charioteer of Ravana tried to fly over Kailasa mountain

and when he could not, Ravana dug up the mountain

and carried it on his shoulders.

Shiva crushed Ravana’s heads and made him put the mountain back

but then Ravana played his veena and praised Shiva,

and the lord of Thirumaraikkaadu gave his grace

and the beautiful sword “Laughter of the Moon” to him.



345. He is the ancient one.

He is the first one of all three gods.

He is in all the corners of cities.

He takes the form of someone doing tapas. 

He is in the thoughts of those thinking of him.

He is all the paths of Saivism.

He is our father, our god

and he stays in Thiruvidaimatudur.



346. Ganga flows in the jata of Shiva

which is adorned with a kondrai garland

of flowers that bloomed in the rainy season

and he wears a snake.

He is justice and judges everything.

He is strong and rides on a fighting bull.

He stays in Thiruvidaimatudur on the south bank of the Kaviri river

where beautiful lotus flowers bloom.



347. Shiva is in the sky and above the sky.

He taught all the four Vedas and their angas to the rishis 

so that all the world would know them.

He sings all the Vedas.

His eyes forgive and remove the sins of his devotees.

He has an eye in his forehead.

He burned the love god Kama when he disturbed his tapas.

He is above thought. 

He stays in Thiruvidaimatudur.



348. He recites all the four Vedas

as the gods in the sky praise him

and his Bhutas sing and dance praising him.

He, our father, the faultless god is the king of the earth.

Now and in the future he removes the troubles

of devotees worshiping his feet. 

He stays in Thiruvidaimatudur. 



349. He has tied a spotted snake on his waist

and many Bhudams surround him.

He is adorned with garlands of kondrai flowers

and Ganga flows in his jata. 

He stays in Thiruvidaimarudur surrounded with dashing water.



350. Shiva, our father, has in his beautiful jata,

the snake, Ganga and the shining crescent moon. 

He rides a heroic fighting bull.

The god of Thiruvidaimatudur

takes away the troubles of his devotees. 



351. In the fragrant jata of Shiva the forceful Ganga flows.

A snake and the floating crescent moon stay in his jata.

All devotees bow to his feet and praise him.

He carries an axe in his right hand

and he shares his body with his wife.

He is the god of Thiruvidaimarudur

surrounded with beautiful groves.



352. Shiva is adorned with a kondrai garland bright as gold.

His jata where Ganga flows shines like lightning,

adorned with vanni leaves and an umatham flower.

When he stood as a fire pillar,

Vishnu and Brahma could not find his head or feet.

Now he stays in Thiruvidaimarutur, praised by the whole world.



353. When the unwise Rakshasa Ravana went to Kailasa,

dug it up and tried to carry it,

Shiva crushed his heads into the earth

but then gave him his grace.

Shiva bent Kailasa mountain as a bow, shot arrows

and burned the three fortresses of the Raksasas.

He stays in Thiruvidaimarudur 

surrounded with lotus ponds and leaves.

---------------


Padiham 36. Thiruppazhanam

 
354. He, the unique god, dances in Thillai.

He married Uma with curly hair adorned with fragrant flowers. 

His jata where the cool water of Ganga flows

is adorned with the crescent moon 

He recited the four divine Vedas,

the highest lord, the god of Thiruppazanam.



355. He takes people to moksha.

He, the pure one, has beautiful curly jata.

I suffer with my bad karma and cannot get out of it.

The gods in the sky do not hear my suffering.

The god does not listen to my pleas.

He does not help me get rid of my sins.

He is the highest god of Thiruppazanam.



356. His devotees, carrying skulls in their hands,

sing, dance and worship the highest god Shiva.

He burned the three forts of the Raksasas.

He recites the Vedas, and he destroys my karma.

The is the highest god of Thiruppazanam. 



357. He is the five—water, fire, earth, sky, and ether.

He is the highest god and he stays everywhere on the earth.

He is a true yogi.

He is the light of the whole world 

and brightens all directions.

He is nectar in this world.

He is the highest god of Thiruppazanam.



358. He is the eon, 

the unique and exalted lord of the world in all the eons. 

He, the highest one, took a towering form

and Vishnu and Brahma as a boar and a swan

tried to find his head and feet. 

He is the god of Thiruppazanam.



359. Shiva stayed under the banyan tree

and taught the Vedas to all the Nayanmars.

He is the embodiment of the sastras of Nanayigar.

He the god who kicked Yama and crushed him under his feet

when Yama came to take Markandeya.

He, the highest god, is like the ghee in milk

and he resides in Thiruppazanam.



360. All the gods who worship the sun, fire, moon,

Brahma, Vishnu, and Budan

searched for Shiva in all the seven worlds,

wanting to see him,

but they could not find him.

He is the light within light,

and he gives half of his body to his wife Uma.

He is the god of Thiruppazanam.



361. He kicked Yama to save Markandeya,

covered himself with the skin of a dark elephant,

and swallowed the poison that came from the milky ocean.

He is adorned with earrings and rides on a white bull.

The moon is on his jata, and he brings light to the earth

when it is surrounded by darkness.

He removes the karma of his devotees

and resides in Thiruppazanam.



362. When Vishnu and Brahma were unable to see Shiva,

they worshiped him

and he appeared in the form of a fiery pillar.

Brahma took the form of a swan and flew towards his head,

while Vishnu became a boar

and went under the earth to find his feet.

When his devotees sprinkle beautiful flowers,

praising and worshiping him, he listens to their songs.

He is the highest god of Thiruppazanam.



363. Ravana sat under the royal umbrella

and dug up and carried the Kailasa mountain of Shiva.

Uma, his wife with a beautiful waist,

was afraid when she saw

and Shiva, riding on a strong bull,

crushed Ravana's heads with his toe

and made him put the mountain back.

Then he forgave Ravana, listened to his Veena music,

and blessed him with his grace.

He is the highest god of Thiruppazanam.

-----------------


Padiham 37. Thiruneythanam

 
364. Oh Shiva with a dark throat,

you have placed the two ankleted feet

that kicked Yama on my head, and I am blessed.

You are the divine god of the temple

surrounded by flourishing groves

in beautiful Thiruneythanam.

I worship you all the ways a devotee should.



365. Shiva burned Kama with his third eye.

He gives his grace to his devotees

when they worship him with fragrance and light.

He stays in the temple in Thiruneythanam,

surrounded by thick groves.

My heart worships that god Vaaman,

and I praise him as my heart desires.



366. Shiva keeps the flooding Ganga in his jata

where the crescent moon floats.

He is our pure god, our protector and the eon.

If devotees worship Shiva in Thiruneythanam,

surrounded by flourishing gardens, they will reach him.



367. Shiva carries a beautiful axe in his hand.

The lovely crescent moon floats in his long jata

and his body is smeared with ashes.

He wears a sacred thread on his chest

and dances, on his ankleted legs.

He is the divine god of Thiruneythanam,

surrounded by fragrant groves.



368. His abode is the burning forest

and he carries fire in his hands.

His attendants, the Bhudams, surround him and sing,

and he dances to their music, adorned with anklets.

He is the faultless one, and he stays in Thiruneythanam.

He is the beautiful one, and I do not know how to join him.



369. He is worshiped by the gods in the sky,

and he gives his grace to them.

He rides on a white bull, the god of Thiruneythanam

surrounded by groves dripping with honey.

I do not know how to reach the god

with the crescent moon in his jata.



370. The anklets on Shiva's feet make a loud sound,

and the fire in his hands spreads light.

He dances all around the world

and his head touches the sky.

His jata spreads in all directions.

He is the god of Thiruneythanam

and happily dances with his wife,

who shares half of his body.



371. Ganga flows in the jata of Shiva.

He dances in the evening with fire in his hands

and guides his devotees towards the right path.

If devotees worship and praise him, he lives in the tongues

and if they think of him, he is in their minds.

He is the god of beautiful Thiruneythanam.



372. He is the light and its brightness.

He wears white ashes.

All the world praises him

and he is pleased and gives his grace. 

He is the beginning and end.

All the devotees iranyji and praise him.

He, the god of Thiruneythanam is justice and austerities. 



373. When Ravana, the king of Lanka,

with a spear with a leaf-shaped blade,

tried to carry Kailasa mountain,

Shiva crushed his heads. 

He gave his grace to the gods.

He burned the three forts of the Raksasas

with his bow and arrow.

He is the god of Thiruneythanam.

-----------------


Padiham 38. Thiruvaiyaru

 
374. He keeps Ganga and a snake in his jata,

and he makes the crescent moon shine in his jata.

All his devotees praise him everywhere through his grace.

He shares half of his body with his wife Uma

and carries a deer and axe and fire in his hands.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaaru.



375. He wears white ashes and a fine white sacred thread

and has a snake around his neck.

He kicked Yama to save Markandeya.

He shares half of his body with his beautiful wife.

All devotees worship his feet.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaaru.



376. On his waist, he wears a tiger skin.

He created all the worlds.

In his hand, he carries an axe.

He has a bull on his banner

and he wears the sacred thread on his chest.

He bestows his grace upon all his devotees

so that they may reach him.



377. All devotees worship him

adorned with a beautiful garland

and with the white crescent moon in his jata.

He gives pleasure to me.

He embraces and shares half of his body with his wife,

whose hair swarms with bees.

The gods in the sky praise him, 

the god of Thiruvaiyaaru.



378. All the gods worship him.

He destroys the bad karma of his devotees,

dances in the burning ground,

and burned Kama when he tried to disturb his tapas.

He made cows give the five sacred things for abhisekham

and he bestows his grace on those performing abhisekham for him .

He skinned the elephant and used the skin to cover himself.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



379. He wears conch earrings and ashes on his body.
He makes the sun rise and all the groves bloom.

He created night and day.

He removes the bad karma of his devotees

and taught the Vedas and the Upanishads to the rishis,

and they spread them in the world.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



380. Shiva gives his grace to his devotees.

He rides on a bull that moves swiftly

and makes the minds of his devotees think of him only.

He grants moksha to his devotees,

showing them the path to reach it.

He covers himself with an elephant skin

and is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



381.He rides on his bull joyfully, making it his vehicle.

He wears a fragrant kondrai garland

and ties a snake around his waist.

He shares his body with his wife Uma

and sits on a tiger skin.

He holds Ganga in his jata.

He is revered as the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



382. Many Bhudams escort him

as he wears bright white ashes.

He inspires his devotees to sing his praises

and gives small drums for accompaniment.

He makes his devotees bow at his feet.

He is the creator and the beginning and end of all.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



383.He makes the wealthy give food to beggars

and gives his grace to generous people.

He makes those hiding their wealth go to hell.

He keeps Ganga flooding with water in his jata.

He gave his grace to Ravana, he, the god of Thiruvaiyaru.

-----------------


Padiham 39. Thiruvaiyaru

 
384. I was once ignorant and became a Jain.

I wandered in confusion and uncertainty,

but you, O bright light, released me from that delusion.

You are the god in the sky guiding me on faultless paths,

As the chief of all gods, you are the honey of Thiruvaiyaru,

and I am your devoted servant,

worshiping at your feet, wandering and praising you.



385. The Jains carry peacock-feather fans

and wander, thinking that is the best form of tapas.

Wearing almost nothing, looking like mere sticks,

they are not wise. And what is the use of all their customs?

My heart thinks of the sweet, honey-like god

of Thiruvaiyaru, worshiped by good devotees.



386. I once wandered with the Jains, begging for food,

carrying a plate, thinking it was the best tapas I could do.

O heart, you thought it is the wonderful thing,

what can I to do you?

Now you join with the sweet honey-like god of Thiruvaiyaru,

and I am pleased with you.



387. The Jains do not bathe or brush their teeth,

My heart liked them, but now I do not know want to join them.

O honey-like god of Thiruvaiyaru,

your devotees worship and praise you.

The bad karma of the devotees bowing to you

with fragrances and flowers will be destroyed. 



388. Oh heart, you once thought that smearing kadukkay powder

on your body was a form of tapas, but it only caused wounds.

You were not wise. Instead, perform sincere tapas

to the honey-like sweet god of Thiruvaiyaru,

where falai fish swim in the lake.



389. As a sage, I did not practice the right tapas.

I did all the things the Jains told me to do,

and joined them wholeheartedly.

O heart I cannot forget the honey that is in Thiruvayaru

surrounded with groves,

and now I have the good fortune of following you.



390. I spent a long time with the intelligent Jains

who understand the meanings of many poems,

but I grew weary of them.

I found joy in worshiping the honey-like God

of Thiruvaiyaru day and night,

where groves of jasmine blossoms abound.



391. Oh, poor heart, you have joined the ignorant Jains.

The people on earth and the gods in the sky

worship the honey-like God of Thiruvaiyaru,

with a jata is adorned with the shining moon.

If you go to see him, all your needs will be fulfilled.



392. Even Thirumal, who broke the branches of the kurunda tree,

and Brahma on the lotus flower,

could see the divine feet of Shiva.

But, O heart, if you meditate on the honey-like God of Thiruvaiyaru,

praised by rishis, all your bad karma will be destroyed.



393. Ravana, the ignorant Raksasa,

hurriedly dug up Kailasa mountain,

but Shiva, the lord of knowledge, saw

and pushed it down with his big toe.

Ravana was crushed and fell to the earth,

but Shiva, the honey-like god of Thiruvaiyaru,

showed him grace and blessed him.

-------------------


Padiham 40. Thiruvaiyaru


394 . He has no other place to stay but the sky,

no other servants but the people of the world,

and no other place to dance but the burning ground.

He does not give anything to his devotees but moksha.

He rides on his bull with his wife with beautiful long hair.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



395. He has no place to stay except under the banyan tree.

He does not have anything to teach except the Vedas to the sages.

There is no food for for him except the poison that he drank

when Vishnu, Brahma and the other gods asked him to help 

when the poison came out of the ocean of milk

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



396. He only dances on the burning ground where foxes live

and his only companion is his wife Uma with curly beautiful hair.

He bestows his grace only upon his devotees

if they think of him with a clear mind.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru and Vishnu worships and praises him 

by sprinkling flowers on him.



397. His only friends are his devotees,

and he wears only a tiger skin.

If people do not know him, he does not give his grace to them,

but after he joins them, he never leaves.

He never abandons his devotees.

All the gods in the sky worship the god of Thiruvaiyaru,

but they cannot truly know him.



398 . His only form is fire,

he rides only on his bull,

and wears only the skin of an elephant.

All the gods in the sky join together

and worship him, saying, “You are the great god.”

Except for Vishnu, he does not have anyone to serve him like a wife.



399 . He wears no ornament except for bones

and rides only on his bull.

He wears nothing except for ashes from the burning ground.

He has nothing but the love of his devotees

who worship him, sing his praise, and dance.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



400. He wears no clothes except for a lion loincloth.

His only ornament is a snake,

and his only help is his own arms.

No one has been hurt by him except Kāma.

There is nothing devotees can offer to repay

the grace the lord gives them.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



401. He has no friends to help him except the people of the world.

He has no temple to stay in except the hearts of devotees

worshiping him with tears in their eyes,

sprinkling the flowers they have picked hurting their hands.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



402. His form is incomplete without his wife Uma,

and he possesses nothing except the whole world.

He is the lord of all,

and there is only goodness for us with no evil.

He gives his grace to his good devotees

worshiping his ankleted feet.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.



403. He has no house except for the mountain Kailasa,

and he crushed only the head of Ravana,

when he showed him no respect.

He did not burn any other forts except the forts 

of the three Raksasas who had no refuge from him.

He is the god of Thiruvaiyaru.

-------------

Thevaaram - Thirunavukkarasar 

Padiham 41. Thiruchotruthurai 404 -413

Padiham 42. Thiruthuruthi 414- 423

Padiham 43. Thirukachimetrali. 424 -433

Padiham 44. Thirukkacciyekambam 434 - 443

Padiham 45. Thiruvotriyur 444 -453

Padiham 46. Thiruvotriyur 454 -455

Padiham 47. Thirukkayilayam 456- 465

Padiham 48. Thiruvaypaadi 466 -475

Padiham 49. Thirukkurukkaverattam 476 -485

Padiham 50. Thirukkurukkai Virattam 486 -487

Padiham 51. Thirukkodikka 488 -497

Padiham 52. Thiruvarur  498 - 507

Padiham 53. Thiruvarur  508- 517

Padiham 54. Thirupuhalur 518 -527

Padiham 55. Thiruvalampuram  528 -537

Padiham 56. Thiruvavaduthurai 538 - 547

Padiham 57. Thiruvavaduthurai 548 - 557

Padiham 58. Thirupparumpadam 558 -567

Padiham 59. Thiruvavalivanallur 568 -577

Padiham 60. Thirupperuvelur 578 -586

-------------


Padiham 41. Thiruchotruthurai

 
404. I spent all my time thinking that this false body is important,

but I do not have a true mind.

Your tongue recited all the Vedas.

I am frightened thinking the harm my five senses do to me.

You are the god of beautiful Thiruchotruturai where varal fish jump.



405. Do not spend time being involved in your bad karma.

He dances moving his eight hands in the night.

Worship him by sprinkling eight types of flowers with five abhisekhams.

The god of Thiruchotruturai will become your servant and give his grace.



406. He bent Himalaya mountain and fought with the Rakshasas,

destroying their three forts.

Worship him night and day, thinking only of him.

He carried the skull of Brahma and begged for food

to be released from his curse.

The god of Thiruchotruturai is all the words and their good meanings.



407. He has a dark throat, and his wife Uma is half of his body.

He is sweet and without equal.

His jata is adorned with the cool, white crescent moon.

He is the great god of faultless Thiruchotruturai.

He entered my heart and removed all my weariness.



408. I spent all my days thinking that my body

with its many entrances is important.

I have not praised you, saying, 

“My father, you are the only god.” 

I have not worshiped you, saying,

“You are my kindred, moksha, and the highest god.”

You are the god of Thiruchotruturai.



409. Worship muttering again and again,

asking him not to be born again.

He gave his grace to Arjuna and gave him the Pasupatham weapon.

When Ganga descended from the sky,

he held her water in his jata

and the water became holy water.

He is the god of Thiruchotruturai.



410. I wasted my life wandering, wanting to be with women

with hair adorned with bunches of flowers.

Alas, I have not worshiped my father, my god.

Half of his body is his wife with an alkul like the hood of a snake.

He is the ancient god of Thiruchotruturai,

surrounded by groves where red pollen spreads.



411. Do not think the most ancient god is the sun.

The sun worships the god of Thiruchotruturai

with the crescent moon, Ganga, and a snake on his head.

Worship Shiva—that is the way to reach moksha.



412. You always recite the shastras and spend your life doing so.

You do not think of the unique god of the world

and you have not meditated on him in the right way.

You did not say that he is faultless.

When Shiva stood as a pillar of light,

Brahma and Vishnu with the discus could not see him,

the god of Thiruchotruturai.



413. If you want not to be born again,

do not put your mind on anything else

but worship and recite the names of god

and follow the ways of worship in shastras.

He, the god of Thiruchotruturai,

became angry with the Rakshasa Ravana

when he dug up and carried the mountain Kailasa,

the abode of Shiva.

-----------


Padiham 42. Thiruthuruthi

 
414. Keep God in your heart and praise him always.

Do not think your body is important.

Shiva keeps his wife Uma as half of his body

and his other wife Ganga in his jata.

He is the god of Thiruthuruthi, the light.

I, his devotee, saw him and received his grace.



415. Some enjoy life and live,

but their life is like living underwater. It is not good.

Praise the god. He burned the three forts of the Asuras

and gave his grace to all.

He is the lord of Thiruthuruthi and the taste in all things.

I saw him and want you to experience

the same joy of seeing him.



416. Shiva keeps his wife as a part of his body

and hides Ganga in his jata.

He stays in Thiruthuruthi,

surrounded by the flooding water of the Ponni river.

Always think of that god in your mind and praise him.

You can see him as I, his devotee, saw.



417. Shiva is in the body of all living beings

in the world and protects them and is their life.

When the gods have trouble, they worship him,

saying, “You are king and take away our difficulties.”

He is the god of Thiruthuruthi and I worship him happily.



418. If you want to remove the troubles of the people

in this world and give them moksha, worship god.

He drank the terrible poison that came out of the milky ocean.

He is the god of Thiruthuruthi, a bright light.

Praise him so that you can see him as I, his devotee, saw.



419. If you want to avoid being born again,

think of the god Shiva of Thiruthuruthi.

He resides in the lotus heart of the body that has many entrances.

He, the generous one, cannot be seen

even by the gods in the sky.

As his devotee, I saw him, and if you want to see him,

always think of him.



420. Shiva keeps Uma as half of his body

The gods in the sky worship him, saying,

“He is the god of the Vedas.”

Even the four-headed Brahma and Vishnu with the discus

were not able to see him when he stood as a pillar of fire.

I, his devotee, saw him, the bright one,

the god of Thiruthuruthi.



421. Do not plunge into the worldly life that is evanescent.

Show him light with pure akhil fragrance,

worship him, and bow to his feet.

He keeps the moon in his jata and guides people in good ways.

He is the pure god of Thiruthuruthi,

and I, his devotee, saw him.



422. The fat Jains and Buddhists think

that whatever they believe is good,

without knowing what is good. Do not follow them.

Shiva burned the three forts of the Asuras

and gave his grace to the gods in the sky.

I am a devotee of Shiva, the companion of all,

and I saw him in Thiruthuruthi.



423. If you want to leave this world and your body,

think only of Shiva and mutter his name.

He crushed Ravana with his toe

when he dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it

and then he gave his grace to him.

He is the god of Thiruthuruthi,

and I, his devotee, saw him there.

-------------


Padiham 43. Thirukachimetrali.

 
424. He sings the Vedas and wanders begging for food.

He has the crescent moon in his jata

half of his body is his wife

and his throat is dark.

He is the god of Kanchi city

where his devotees sing and dance.



425. He is the god of Vishnu and Brahma.

He takes the forms of a young and old person,

he wears ashes white as milk.

He crushed Yama with his toe for Markandeya.

He is the father of Murugan

who took the form of a kadamba tree for Valli.

He is the god in Kanchi.



426. When the gods in the sky come

and praise him with songs, he hears them happily.

He is like the pupil of our eyes.

He is numbers and letters and he stays in Kanchi.



427. On his head he wears the crescent moon with a snake,

and Ganga flows in his jata.

The gods come and worship him in the night when he dances.

He burned Kāma with his third eye.

He, the dancer, is my father and he stays in Kanchi.



428. The lord abides in your body and in your life.

He is the world and the end of the world.

He fought with Arjuna

and is all the Asuras and the gods.

He wanders in the forest, his throat is dark,

he wears bones, and stays in Kanchi.



429. He is Brahma, Indra, the entire world,

all the lands, the eight directions, and all the waters

of pilgrimage places. He is within your body

and he is your life. He is the unique Lord

of the shining temple in Kanchi.



430. He shares his body with Thirumal who ate mud.

He abides in the hearts of devotees when they praise him with songs.

He has three eyes.

He makes all his devotees think only of him in their hearts 

and is the god of Kanchi.



431. His wife is half of his body.

Murugan is his son.

He wears garlands of jasmine and kondrai.

He stays in Kanchi where the sun always shines,

keeping his temple bright,

and all the people are learned.



432. Half of his body is his wife

with a matchless waist.

He wears the crescent moon and a snake in his jata

where Ganga flows.

He abides in Kanchi surrounded by beautiful groves

and rides a white bull.



433. When Ravana, the king of the south,

dug out and carried Kailasa mountain,

Shiva’s ornamented wife trembled.

When they saw that he pushed down the mountain

with his toe, crushing the shining crowns of Ravana,

the gods in the sky sang his praise

and he, the lord of Kanchi, gave them his grace.

---------------


Padiham 44. Thirukkacciyekambam

 
434. He is our friend.

He burned the three forts of the Asuras with his arrows.

He, a river of nectar, stays in Kanchi surrounded by groves.

He, Ekamban, wears the white crescent moon in his pure jata.

I think of him. He is pure gold and a coral pillar.



435. You are the lord of Kanchi

where there is a pond

where crocodiles are one muzham long,

but I try to live holding to the opening

where the water goes out.



436. Half of his body is the daughter of Himalaya

and he carries an axe.

He burned the three forts of the Asuras with his arrows.

He, Ekamban, carries a leaf-shaped trident and stays in Kanchi.

He is the lord of the great gods worshiped by people.



437. He wears a blooming kondrai garland in his jata.

Ganga which is a tirtha flows in his jata.

As Ekamban, he stays in the temple of Kanchi

worshiped by all his devotees.

I do not know how to praise him.



438. Half of him is his wife with wide, dark flower-like eyes.

He carried a skull in his hand and begged.

Carrying his bow he hunted a pig.

He, Ekamban, is the lord of Kanchi—

the bad karma of his worshipers will disappear.



439. Ganga, remover of bad karma, flows in his jata.

He is the lord praised by all the gods,

and he removes the bad karma of his devotees.

He is the god Ekamban of Kanchi

and is praised by those who love him.

I think of his form and melt for him in my heart.



440. He takes any form he wishes 

and dances with many beautiful forms.

He swallowed poison so the world could survive.

He, Ekamban, stays in Kanchi

praised by people of all eight directions.

I wander, thinking I will see him and be his slave.



441. He has the snake and the cool crescent moon in his hair.

and took the skin of the elephant, making onlookers afraid.

He, Ekamban, stays in flourishing Kanchi.

I long to see him dancing and to receive his grace.



442. On his chest he wears a garland of kondrai like gold.

He entered my heart and stays there.

He, the sweet Ekamban, stays on Kailasa mountain

and is seen by all his devotees comes in my dreams.



443. He is the god of Thiruthuruthi praised by his devotees.

He gives his grace to all who love him.

He rides on a white bull and stays in Ekambam.

If devotees love him and serve him,

all their bad karma will go away.

---------------


Padiham 45. Thiruvotriyur

 
444. If devotees wish to reach 

the god, knower of all the Vedas and the songs,

they should remove any impurity from their mind

and fill it with the true fire of wisdom. 

The god will enter their body and brighten their minds.

He is the king of Thiruvotriyur.



445. If you do not want to live in this world,

and join the god after leaving your body, 

do hard tapas and think only of the god in your heart,

feeling his presence always. 

He, the god, stays in Thiruvotriyur. 



446. O devotees, if you want to do charity

and think that is enough to reach god,

you only plunge into troubles. 

If you want to reach god in heaven, come, be strong.

He will light up the lamp of wisdom in your heart

and take away all your weakness. 

He is the god of Thiruvotriyur. 



447. Do not plunge into desires and be taken by Yama.

The god is the Veda and the Svayambhu.

He gives his grace and knowledge to his devotees

if they worship him in the night.

He is the light of sacrifices,

the god of Thiruvotriyur.



448. He is the god of all the six religions 

and he is the Svayambhu.

He is Esan praised by all the gods.

He forgives the sins of the devotees worshiping his feet.

Half of his body is his wife Uma

and he stays in Thiruvotriyur.



449. Shiva hides his wife Ganga in his jata,

but is good to Uma, keeping her as half of his body,

while the world praises him for that. 

He is good to one wife only.

He is a beggar and he begs carrying the skull of Brahma.

He is the king of Thiruvotriyur. 



450. You wander around like a crazy person

to save your body and enjoy this world,

but one day you will no longer be in this world. 

All your thoughts are false. 

The god will stay in the flesh of the hearts of devotees

if they feel and think of him the right way.

He is the king of Thiruvotriyur.



451. You are innocent and do not meditate

on the name of the god with long jata.

If you want your old karma to be removed,

know that he stays in the minds if devotees think of him,

lighting up their hearts as they recite the Vedas.

He is the god of Thiruvotriyur. 



452. You wish for the pleasure of women

and try again and again to gain your desire,

but if any trouble comes to you, they stay far away from you,

mocking you and saying again and again what joke is this?

He, the god of Thiruvotriyur, stays in the hearts of his devotees

when they sing and dance his praise and think of him in their hearts.



453. O, mind! Hate the desires that your five senses give

because they always make you think of the same pleasures

that they gave you before..

Destroy anger, hate and enmity in your mind.

He crushed Ravana under his Kailasa mountain and punished him,

but he gave his grace to him afterwards.

He is the god of Thjiruvotriyur.

---------------


Padiham 46. Thiruvotriyur

 
454. I took care of my body without doing anything good.

I thought only evil things in my heart.

I am like a spoon that has no handle to scoop up food

and cannot do what I want.

I think of various ways to escape from this life 

like a frog caught in the mouth of a snake,

but you save and protect me, O god of Thiruvotriyur.



455. My mind is a boat and it sails with my knowledge that is its oars.

I put on the boat my desire and sail on the ocean.

When sailing, if the boat hits a rock that is my desire

and the boat is going to turn over, I will not know what to do.

O, god of Thiruvotriyur, give me the wisdom to worship only you.

----------------


Padiham 47. Thirukkayilayam

 
456. Kailasa the abode of Shiva

is filled with gold and precious diamonds.

Ravana dug up the mountain and tried to carry it. 

Uma saw and became frightened.

Shiva, controller of all lives of the world, 

used his toe and crushed the mountain

but afterwards he saved Ravana and gave his grace to him. 

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived. 



457. Ravana angry, his eyes growing red,

dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it on his shoulders.

Uma was frightened, and Shiva

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



458. Ravana became angry, his eyes growing red,

and he dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva, laughing,

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe

making Ravana fall like a mountain.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



459. Ravana, maddened, became angry, his eyes growing red,

and he carried the mountain in his hands.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva laughed

and pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe

making Ravana scream and fall.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



460. Ravana became angry, his eyes grew red,

and he carried the mountain in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



461. Ravana, beside himself, became angry, his eyes grew red,

and he carried the mountain in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



462. Ravana became angry, his eyes grew red,

and he carried the mountain in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva danced,

pressing the mountain into the earth with his toe

and making Ravana fall.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



463. Swift Ravana became angry, his eyes grew red,

and he carried the mountain in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe,

crushing it into pieces.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



464. Ravana became angry, his eyes grew red,

and he carried the mountain in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe,

breaking it into pieces.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.



465. Learned Ravana became angry, his eyes grew red,

and he carried the mountain in his hand.

Parvathi was frightened and Shiva

pressed the mountain into the earth with his toe

making Ravana fall.

Ravana could not fight Shiva.

If Shiva had crushed the mountain with all his might,

Ravana could have never survived.

---------------


Padiham 48. Thiruvaypaadi

 
466. Shiva is all the seven oceans and the worlds.

He is the sky, all lives, and people.

He is the evening when flowers bloom.

He is the cool light of the moon and the bright light of the sun.

He wears a kondrai garland made of buds and blossoms.

He stays in beautiful Thiruvaypaadi. 



467. He is the ancient one and all knowledge and abundance

He is light and its brightness.

He is the pure path that lead us all.

Half of him is his wife Uma.

He is a friend to all those worship him.

He is the god of Thiruvaypadi flourishing with fields

and where Vediyars live. 



468. The great god is the Rigveda and its meaning.

He is the friend of those praising him with songs.

He has an eye in his forehead.

Half of his body is his wife

who cannot be known by anyone else.

He is the god of Thiruvaypadi the city desired by all. 



469. He, the ancient one, is all the worlds

and is the king of the gods in the sky.

I keep his feet in my heart.

The god of Thiruvaypadi saw Vicara Sarman

drawing and worshiping a sivalingam on the sand. 

The father of Vicara Sarman came to erase it,

but he grew angry at his father and cut his foot.

Shiva saw his devotion, gave him his grace

and named him Chandisan.



470. He is the mind, clarity of mind

and Shivam inside in the clarity of mind.

He is all good things we receive.

Half of his body is his wife with a shining forehead.

He, the omnipotent god, stays on the bank 

of the southern Manni river flourishing with groves.

He has no beginning or end. 



471. He wears a vanni garland.

He is ornamented with a snake

and the crescent moon on his head. 

He is a shining light,

He is the benefit of truth.

He has his wife as half his body.

He is in the thoughts of devotees who keep him in their hearts.

He stays in Thiruvaypadi 

where his devotees praise him with sweet songs.



472. He exists both inside and outside our bodies.

He has a form and yet is formless.

He is the flood of a river and its banks.

He is the shining sun.

No one knows him but he is in the hearts of his devotees.

He gives his grace to his devotees as they desire.



473. He is the power of illusion and awakening.

He is mountains and wind.

He is great and small.

He stays united to people’s mind.

He is all that has happened and the end of all.

He is the god of all the eight directions.

He is the god of Thiruvaypadi.



474. He took the form of a pillar of fire.

He stays above all the seven worlds.

He is a bright light.

Brahma and Vishnu could not see his head or feet

when he took a tall form of fire.

He will give his grace to the devotees

praising and bowing to his feet.

He is the god of Thiruvaypadi. 



475. When Ravana, the strong Raksasa dug up

and tried to carry the mountain Kailasa,

Parvathi saw and became frightened,

but Shiva made the Raksasa weak

and crushed the mountain with his toe.

Ravana screamed and fell from mountain.

Then Shiva, the god of Thiruvaypadi,

listened to the Veena music of Ravana and was pleased.

--------------


Padiham 49. Thirukkurukkaverattam

 
476. In ancient times, Brahma worshiped Shiva’s feet under

a flowering tree of the grove in Thiruveettanam,

and Shiva was pleased with the worship of Brahma, creator of the Vedas.

He is the bright light and there are no words to praise him.



477. Every day Markandeya wore vibhuti on his forehead, 

brought water from the Kaveri river

and bathed and worshiped Shiva in the proper way.

When Yama’s servants came to take him

because it was his time, Shiva came and saved him 



478. Vicara Sarman made a shiıvalingam on the sand

and worshiped it with milk. His father saw it

and was trying to erase it with his feet,

but Vicara Sarman grew angry and cut him on on his foot.

The god saw it, gave his grace to Vicara Sarman

and called him Chandeswara.



479. A spider made a web to shadow the god in Thiruvanaika,

In his next birth, the lord of Kurukkaivirattanam 

made the spider be born as the king Kocenkanan

of the Chola country where the Kaviri flows.



480. Vishnu, destroyer of the seven bulls,

was going to worship the god sprinkling

a thousand lotus flowers on his feet. 

One flower was missing,

and so he took one of his eyes and used it as a flower.

Then Shiva, the god of Kurukkaivirattanam,

gave the discus to Vishnu.



481. Sakiya Nayanar would eat only after throwing

a stone at the Shivalinagam,

but still Shiva came and took him to heaven.

He is the god who carries fire in his hand

and dances in the forest to the kolli raga.

He is the lord of Kurukkaivirattanam.



482. Kannappar held a bow and arrow 

He went to the god with meat in his hand

and worshiped him. Blood appeared on the god’s eye

and Kannapar was about to pull out his own eye

and put it on the eye of the god

to stop its bleeding. The lord of Kurukkaivirattanam stopped him

from pulling out his eye.



483. A rat was putting on a light to worship the god,

but as he was doing that his nose was burned.

The lord of Kurukkaivirattanam gave him his grace

made him be born again as the king Mabali.



484. The god Shiva with Uma as half his body

gave his grace to Kanampulla Nayanar

who gave medicine to the sick.

The lord of Kurukkaivirattanam gave him his grace

because he took care of the sick.



485. When Ravana the king of Lanka dug up Kailasa mountain

and put it on his shoulders, Shiva came and pushed the mountain

down into the earth with his toe. Then Ravana played the veena

and Shiva gave him a sword of victory and long life.

---------------


Padiham 50. Thirukkurukkai Virattam

 
486. Shiva took an immense column of fire.

Brahma became a swan and flew up into the sky

and Vishnu became a boar and dug up the earth.

The lord of Kurukkaivirattam where flags fly

took the form of a hunter, came to Arjuna and taught him mantras.



487. That lord of Kurukkaivirattam came in a procession

for seven days in the Brahmotsavam festival.

At that time Brahma, Vishnu and the gods in the sky

worshiped Shiva and praised him.

------------


Padiham 51. Thirukkodikka

 
488. You have an eye on your forehead,

you wear white ashes,

your hair is jata,

you drank poison from the milky ocean,

you burned the three forts of the Asuras, 

you are faultless,

you are the god of Thirukodika.



489. You wear a fragrant kondrai garland,

you carry the skull of Brahma in your hands,

you have as part of your body your wife, lovely Uma, 

you give your grace to your devotees 

who bow to your feet every day,

you are the god of Thirukodika

decorated always with beautiful flags.



490. You wear ashes,

you carry a shining axe in your hand,

you ride on a bull,

you are precious as the nectar from the ocean,

you taught the six Upanishas and the four Vedas to the rishis,

you gave half of your body to your wife,

you are the god of Thirukodika.



491. You kicked Yama and gave your grace to Markandeya

when Yama came to take him,

your throat is dark,

you are the chief of the gods,

you are the world itself,

your beautiful jata is adorned with the young crescent moon,

you are the god of Thirukodika. 



492. You are adorned with a snake,

you wear a tiger skin and a white lion cloth,

you carried the skull of Brahma and begged,

you have Uma your wife as half of your body,

you have the crescent moon on your head,

you are the god of Thirukodika.



493. On your chest you wear a shining garland

made from a boar’s horn and you are my father.

I am a poor person, what will I do?

I am fascinated by women, caught by their eyes

that are as beautiful as a split mango fruit.

You ride on a small bull, O god of Thirukodika.



494. You carry fire in your hand,

you have your wife as half of your body,

you wear on your waist a snake,

you carry the skull of Brahma and beg.

You are the god Thirukodika

surrounded with cool groves

and bees with stripes that sing like flutes.



495. You carry a bow and arrows,

you burned the three forts of the Asuras,

you share half of your body with the daughter of Himalaya

with eyes like split mangos.

I am caught in the enjoyment of five senses.

Forgive me for all my faults, O god of Thirukodika. 



496. Ganga flows in your jata.

Vishnu who measured the earth with his two feet

and Brahma on the fragrant lotus

could not find your head or feet

when you took the form of an measureless pillar of fire.

You are Yama for Yama himself.

You are the god of Thirukodika.



497. I will serve you to know you.

You are Pasupathi and take away the sins of your devotees.

When you skinned a rutting elephant

and covered yourself with the skin.

your wife Uma saw and was frightened.

You crushed the shoulders of Ravana 

when he tried to carry your Kailasa mountain.

Your jata and chest are beautiful. 

You are the god of Thirukodika.

----------------


Padiham 52. Thiruvarur

 
498. Human life is a struggle to fill one’s stomach that is like a big hole.

When I saw how this life is, I called you to take me away.

My five senses are so strong they make me to obey them,

and I cannot live with them.

I am your slave—help me, 

O you abiding in the sanctum of the temple in Thiruvarur



499. My body is like a cart 

filled with worms and covered with skin.

It has nine leaking orifices.

In this life, my five senses give me trouble that I cannot bear.

Help me, O you abiding in the sanctum of the temple in Thiruvarur.



500. You are my chief and friend.

I fall into the passion of women with feet as soft as cotton

and think of nothing but them. 

I am afraid, I cannot get away from my desire.

O god of Thiruvarur,

tell me that there is nothing for me to fear.



501. My five senses make me love women

who have kendai fish like eyes 

and I yearn to embrace them.

Like the Jains, my enemies. 

make me suffer unbearably. 

O you with a dark throat, protect me.

god of Thiruvarur worshiped by all the gods of the sky. 



502. I fall into the desire of women, 

with long hair and sweet words. 

O lord, I am poor, what can I do?

It seems to live is difficult,

my five senses push me into suffering.

O god of Thiruvarur.



503. You have not helped me,

I am stupid and do not have a good fate.

Are you angry with me?

My five senses come like Yama and make me suffer.

I do not have the ability to suffer more,

but you do not give my any way to relieve my pain,

O god of Thiruvarur. 



504. My five senses make my body suffer 

like a dried up tree that needs water,

I suffer with the troubles they give,

O god of Thiruvarur.



505. I have not learned anything.

I run around with women always

and have gotten only sorrow.

My five senses give me only suffering,

O god of Thiruvarur.



506. I do not live like a devotee.

My five sense give me troubles and I cannot function.

My heart suffers as if it were yogurt being churned.

O lord, you are the king of the gods

and god of Thiruvarur.



507. When Ravana dug up and carried Kailasa,

all the Bhudams were afraid and ran away.

Shiva, god of Thiruvarur.

pushed Ravana’s heads into the earth with his toe

and then gave him his grace.

------------


Padiham 53. Thiruvarur

 
508. Parvathi’s words are like the music of a flute

and her eyes are like spears.

Devotees always circle her and worship her.

O Shiva, you are never apart from her.

You carry fire in your hand and give grace to all.

You stay in Thiruvarur so devotees can circle you in worship.



509. Parvathi saw the snake and was afraid.

The snake saw Parvathi and thought she was a peacock.

The moon did not give light on the skin of the elephant 

that Shiva covered himself with and 

the snake thought the moon is lightning and be quiet. 

Shiva is the lord of Thiruvarur.



510. All the devotees worshiped the lord

who stays in the temple of Thiruvarur

surrounded with fields. 

He wears the crescent moon in his jata

and makes his devotees be like him

when he enters their hearts.



511. The dark-throated lord who drank poison

dances in the forest in the middle of the night,

and the crescent moon in his jata shines out.

He is the lord of Thiruvarur.



512. All the gods praise his form

as beautiful as the karpagam tree.

Parvathi who has a lovely body embraces him.

With his beautiful jata and gentle character,

he is like a tender shoot. 

He is the lord of Thiruvarur.



513. He wanders about and begs for food

carrying a skull. He drank poison.

He dances in the sky.

He is adorned with the moon

and when they see him, women fall in love with him.

He is the lord of Thiruvarur.



514. With the eye in his forehead, 

he burned Kama who had five arrows

and fell in love with his wife

whose hair was parted in five ways.

People worship him with the five products of milk,

the lord of Thirvarur with a snake around his waist.



515. On the streets of Thiruvarur the flags touch the sky.

In the tangled jata of the lord of Thiruvarur the moon shines 

He takes away the bad karma of the gods who worship him.



516. Good people recite the four Vedas

to change bad people into good

and the lord of Thirvarur gives them refuge.

When he was a pillar of fire,

Vishnu and Brahma searched for his feet and head.

He is praised by all the people of the world.



517. He took poison from the ocean

and drank it to save the gods.

He burned the three forts

and saved the gods from the Asuras.

His many devotees dance and praise him.

He is the lord of Thiruvarur.

--------------


Padiham 54. Thirupuhalur

 
518. You are the lord of the gods

who fought with the Rakshasas

and destroyed their three forts.

The five senses of my body 

torment me and make me suffer.

What can I do, O god of Thirupuhalur.



519. I am caught in the net of desiring

women with large eyes and do not think

of the god who carries a trident and fire.

When I choke and die, I do not know what I will do,

O lord of Thirupuhalur.



520. My body has ninety-six parts

and my five senses make me suffer.

I do not know what to do,

O red lord of Thirupuhalur.



521. I thought this world was true

and followed wrong paths in my life.

I do not know what is moral,

O god of the gods, I do not have the right mind

to keep you in my heart.

What can I do, O lord of Thirupuhalur?



522. Thirupuhalur is a place for devotees

who sing constantly praising the god.

I do not have the heart to worship the feet

of that lord and do not know him.

What can I do, O lord of Thirupuhalur?



523. I desired women as lovely as ilavam flowers

and thought I would be with them always.

I do not think of you, the god of justice,

and I do not have the wisdom to praise your feet.

I am confused—what can I do, O lord of Thirupuhalur?



524. I do not control my five senses,

and I do not become your slave,

thinking of you who are truth.

O highest lord, you gave your grace to Arjuna.

You are the sacred water that cleanses

the sins of your devotees, You are the lord of Thirupukalur.



525. You are water, fire, earth and sky,

and the sun and moon. 

The gods in the sky worship you.

No one can search and find you.

You are the god of the gods who dance with the gods.

You are the lord of Thirupukalur.



526. I put the light of truth in my heart

and made it bright, seeking to remove my karma,

but you put the pleasure of the five sense in my body.

They are powerful and I do not know what to do,

O the lord of Thirupukalur.



527. Vishnu and Brahma desired to see

the head and feet of Shiva but could not find them.

When the king of Lanka dug up Kailasa mountain

and carried it, Shiva came and pushed him

into the earth with one toe. He is the lord of Thirupukalur.

---------------


Padiham 55. Thiruvalampuram

 
528. Devotees go to Thiruvalampuram

where bees drink the nectar of the flowers.

They plunge into the ocean and worship the feet of the god,

singing and praising him.

How beautiful it is that the lord stays there

and listens to to their music!



529. In Thiruvalampuram, valai fish jump in the ocean

frightening bees so they fly away.

Devotees tie garlands to adorn the god and praise him.

That is the beauty of the lord of Thiruvalampuram.



530. Devotees take flowers dripping with nectar

sprinkling them on the feet of the lord

and doing abhishekam for him,

and the god with the crescent moon in his jata

accepts their worship.

I, a slave of the lord of Thiruvalampuram,

worship him and will receive the results of good karma.



531. The god of Thiruvalampuram wears on his chest

the tusk of a boar.]

He has long jata, a snake around his waist,

and covers himself with an elephant skin.

In his jata, Ganga flows and the crescent moon shines.

The lord stays there as young women praise him.



532. In Thiruvalampuram the moon shines

taking away the darkness, and its light nourishes the plants.

Devotees come to worship carrying flowers in their hands

and the lord of Thiruvalampuram listens to their singing.



533. O lord with a beautiful jata, my heart thinks only of you.

I brought items for abhishekam and bathed you lovingly.

I cannot tell what is false from what is true.

What can I do, O lord of Thiruvalampuram?



534. As women of good houses search for fruit

fallen into the ponds fish jump up from the water and bite them.

Such is the beauty of Thiruvalampuram

where our lord stays



535.In the paddy fields ambal, kuvalay and neytal flowers bloom,

and on the streets coconuts and mangoes fall from the trees.

Herons come from the water and dry their feathers. 

Such is the beauty of Thiruvalampuram

where our lord stays



536. Dark Vishnu and Brahma who sits on a lotus

tried to find the feet and head of Shiva but could not.

That great lord makes himself easy to reach

and stays in Thiruvalampuram.



537. When Ravana, thinking himself strong,

dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it,

Shiva laughed and pushed his ten heads and twenty arms

into the earth with his toe.

The lord of Thiruvalampuram can overcome

the manliness and strength of all.

----------


Padiham 56. Thiruvavaduthurai

 
538. All the world worships his lotus feet.

He wears the flowing Ganga in his jata.

He gave Sambandar a thousand gold coins.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



539. Half his body is his wife Uma

and he carries a deer in his hand.

He, the young god of Kudanthai city,

wears a tiger skin and drank the poison.

He fought with Yama for Markandeya.

He is the friend of all who take refuge in him.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



540. He cures the sickness of his devotees

and shows his compassion to all.

He destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas.

He is praised by learned people

and is the friend of those who sing his praises.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



541. He carries an axe in his hand

and shares half of his body with Uma,

he holds a trident and wanders about

wearing a garland of skulls.

He is the friend of his devotees

who dance and sing praising him.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



542. On his body he wears sacred ashes

and a white thread. He rides on a swift bull.

He burned Kama and wears a garland on his head.

He protects the devotees who praise him with love.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



543. Wanting to kill Vakkara, Vishnu worshiped Shiva

with his eye using it as a flower,

and for that Shiva gave him a discus.

He is the king of the gods in the sky.

He, wearing rudraksha beads, gives sorrow

to those who know what it is to be born again

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



544. His banner is a bull and a white sacred thread on his chest.

He carries an axe and wears the skin of a tiger and a loincloth.

He is the whole world and removes the sorrows

of those who take refuge in him.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



545. The gods came and worshiped him

asking for his help and he burned the three forts

of the Rakshasas. He saved Nangimaakaalar.

He has the evening crescent moon in his jata.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



546. Vishnu, in his boar avatar, and Brahma

who sits on a lotus searched for his feet and head

but could not find them. He rides on a bull

and destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



547. He gave his grace to Arjuna

and has long jata. He gives happiness

to those who come to him asking for his help.

He pushed the Rakshasa Ravana into the earth,

making him scream.

He is the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.

-------------


Padiham 57. Thiruvavaduthurai

 
548. You are strong, a jewel, a bunch of emeralds.

You enter the hearts of all and make them act.

When I sleep, you come to me as a help

and give me your grace, telling me, “Do not be afraid.”

You are the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



549. Even though I want to reach you always,

these five senses hinder me,

and so I should not say I am your devotee.

You ride on a bull

and are the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



550. You wander about carrying the skull of Brahma

and have eight forms. I cannot keep you in my heart

because my karma hinders me.

You are the lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



551. I did not talk about wonderful Thillai

or think only of you happily.

I am wasting my life in my pride.

You drank the poison, O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



552. I am a bad person caught in karma,

but you come and protect me from the five senses

that cause me to suffer.

Half of your body is Uma

whose hair is adorned with flowers.

You make the eight snakes dance,

O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



553. Your throat is dark, and with one arrow

you burned the three forts of the Rakshasas.

Ganga flows in your jata.

You take away the karma of those who worship you,

and you carry fire and dance

O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



554. I do not restrain my mind

and in my heart I do not think of Shiva.

I do not have ambition or good character,

and I do not say what I should say properly.

My mind does not think of the right path

and I do not think what I should think.

I have no wisdom and am tired,

O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



555. I cannot see your form whose half is Uma.

You take away my karma and give me your grace

so I will not suffer in this world.

You drank the poison,

O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



556. People think of you as a form of fire 

searched for by Vishnu and Brahma,

but they should not say that you have only that form

because you are in my heart also,

O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.



557. When the Rakshasa Ravana carried Kailasa mountain,

frightening Parvathi, you pressed his heads into the earth

and gave your grace to Ravana.

Ganga flows in your jata,

O lord of Thiruvavaduthurai.

--------------


Padiham 58. Thirupparumpadam

 
558. He burned the three Rakshasa forts.

He took the form of a beggar and asked for alms.

He took the form of hunter and pursued the boar.

He begged, singing the Vedas,

and all the gods in the sky bow to him and worship him.

He is the god of Thirupparumpadam.



559. He wander and sings the Vedas

and begs for food carrying the skull of Brahma.

The gods worship him and praise him.

In his jata Ganga flows.

He has three eyes and 

give his grace to those who hold on to him.



560. He has a faultless heart, 

He my father gives his grace to all those who worship him.

He dances in the night and gives his grace to all.

He burned the three forts of the Raksasas, 

He stays in Thirupparumpadam giving his grace to all. 



561.He carries the skull of Brahma and begs. 

He wears sacred ashes

and dances in the burning ground carrying fire.

He wears a silk dress and gives his grace to his devotees 

who do not have the desires of the world.

He is the god of Thirupparumpadam.



562. He carries a skull in his hands,

He burned Kama with his forehead eye, 

He is the truth and he wears sacred ashes all over his body.

He gives all the pleasures that his devotees want.

He wears a snake.

He is the god of Thirupparumpadam. 



563. He took the form of a hunter

and skinned the elephant and covered himself with it.

He carries a skull and begs wandering the world.

He stays in the burning ground carrying fire in his hand.

He rides a white bull

and his Ganas surround him singing his praise. 

He is the lord of Thirupparumpadam.



564. His throat is dark as a raincloud.

He skinned the elephant.

The gods praise him, the god of Ekambam,

and he protects them.

He rides a strong bull and his wife is part of him.

He is the god of Thirupparumpadam.



565. He removes the sickness of his devotees.

He, our father, has a throat dark like a thundercloud

and carries a skull in his hand.

The great god rides on a white bull

and his Ganas sing rhythmically for him.

He is the lord of Thirupparumpadam.



566. He rides on a white abull that is lovely-eyed Vishnu.

All his devotees think of him in their hearts and praise him.

He is the lord Shiva worshiped by all.

He is the lord of Thirupparumpadam.



567. He rides a strong bull.

He drank the poison and pushed Ravana into the earth.

He wears white ashes and has the crescent moon in his jata.

He is the lord of Thirupparumpadam.

---------------


Padiham 59. Thiruvavalivanallur

 
568. The Rakshasa Ravana asked his charioteer to speed,

and because the charioteer did not do what he asked,

he dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it.

Shiva came and destroyed his strength.

He is the lord of Avalivanallur.



569. All the Rakshasas thought what Ravana did was wrong.

They said, “If you do this, our land will be destroyed.”

Shiva, who wished to help the Rakshasas,

shot his arrow at Ravana.

He is the lord of Avalivanallur.



570. If someone is strong, you cannot think of him as weak.

Ravana thought Shiva was weak and dug up Kailasa mountain

and carried it on his shoulders

but Shiva pushed him into the earth with one toe. 

He is the lord of Avalivanallur.



571. Ravana did not know he was not as strong as he thought.

He dug up the Kailasa mountain of strong-bowed Shiva,

and the god broke his body into pieces.

He is the lord of Avalivanallur.



572. Ravana thought that he was strong.

He rode his chariot, came to fight with Shiva,

dug Kailasa mountain 

and carried it on his shoulders.

Shiva pushed Ravana’s ten heads into the earth.

Ravana praised Shiva and Shiva forgave him.

He is the god of Avalivanallur. 



573. Ravana did not know his strength 

and went to fight with Shiva.

He dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it. 

Shiva pushed his ten heads into the earth

and making Ravana scream.

Then Shiva forgave him.

He is the god of Avalivanallur.



574. Ravana’s charioteer told him 

that those who oppose Shiva are destroyed.

Ravana did not listen to him and 

took Kailasa mountain on his shoulders.

Shiva pushed all his heads into the earth

and they were crushed like soft athi fruits. 

He is the god of Avalivanallur.



575. Ravana went to many countries and conquered them.

Shiva stopped him, and using one toe pushed him into the earth.

Ravana praised him with songs

and the god adorned with a snake

gave him his grace and saved him.

He is the god of Avalivanallur.



576. Vishnu took the form of a boar

and Brahma took the form of a swan,

but they could not find his head or feet.

When the Rakshasa Ravana dug up Kailasa mountain,

Shiva pushed him into the earth and then saved him.

He is the god of Avalivanallur.



577. When Ravana dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it,

Shiva pushed his heads into the earth

and said, “Do not be afraid,” and saved him.

He is the nectar-like lord and the god of Avalivanallur.

---------------


Padiham 60. Thirupperuvelur

 
578. He recited the Vedas.

He is in the hearts of his devotees who never forget him.

He holds fire in his hand and dances,

his jata decorated with the moon.

He, the lord, stays in Thirupperuvelur.

I worship him sprinkling flowers.



579. He is the lord of all the world

and he is our god, the highest yogi.

He has many forms. He is crazy.

He is the god of Thirupperuvelur.



580. He is the father of Murugan

who married the gypsy Valli.

As half of his body he has Uma whose hair is fragrant.

He removes the birth of all and stays in Thirupperuvelur.

I, his devotee, became his friend.



581. He has a dark throat and carries an axe in his right hand

and a deer in his other hand.

He dances with fire and is the Pinyakan.

He is the lord of Thirupperuvelur.

I do not have the wisdom to think of him constantly.



582. He wears an ornament on his forehead

and covers himself with an elephant skin.

He gives moksha to his devotees and is the four Vedas.

He stays in Thirupperuvelur

where birds crowd and do not fly away,

I do not know how to go near him and know him.



583. He ties a snake on his waist

and has a dark throat from drinking the poison.

He is the the god of Thirukkachi.

He dances carrying fire and wanders about begging.

He stays in Thirupperuvelur. I wanted to go to him

but do not know how to worship and reach him.



584. He is a Siddha and the ancient god for his devotees.

He is the entire world. He is crazy

and is the god of Thirupperuvelur

where all his devotees worship him.

He is a friend to all but I do not know the way to reach him.



585. He wears a garland on his neck and on his head.

He is all knowledge. He wears a kondrai garland

swarming with bees on his chest

and the crescent moon shines in his jata.

He is the life in my body.

He is the god of Thirupperuvelur.



586. He is the ancient one of the world

and I do not know how to reach him.

Even though unwise people have other religions

and are jealous of Shiva, all his devotees

praise him with love, the god of Thirupperuvelur.

But I do not know how to embrace and join him.

--------------

Thevaaram - Thirunavukkarasar 

Padiham 61. Thiruviramesvaram 587- 598

Padiham 62. Thiruvalavay 599 - 608 

Padiham 63. Thiruvannamalai  609 - 618

Padiham 64. Thiruveezimizalai 619 - 628

Padiham 65. Thiruccaykkadu 629 - 638
 
Padiham 66. Thirunagesvaram 639 -648

Padiham 67. Thirukkondeecharam 649 -658

Padiham 68. Thiruvalankadu 659 - 668

Padiham 69. Thirukkovalvirattam 669 -678

Padiham 70. Thirunanipalli  679- 687

Padiham 71. Thirunagaikaronam 688 - 695

Padiham 72. Thiruvinnambar 696 - 706

Padiham 73. Thirucherai 707 -715

Padiham 74. Podu 716 -725

Padiham 75. Podu 726 - 735

Padiham 76. Podu 736 - 745

Padiham 77. Podu 746 - 753

Padiham 78. Podu 754 - 763

Padiham 79. Podu 764 - 769

Padiham 80. Kovil 770 - 779

-------------


Padiham 61. Thiruviramesvaram

 
587. He pushed the king of Lanka surrounded by the sea

into the earth with his toe.

He has a dark throat anda jata where the crescent moon shines.

He is the god of Thirupperuvelur. 

His loving devotees praise him

and I think of him with love in my heart.



588. Rama killed Ravana and the Raksasas

who do not know how to remove their bad karma.

Rama worshiped Shiva in Rameswaram

to get help to conquer the Rakshasas.

O devotees, think of the temple in Rameswaram with love

It is the temple where the god who loves his devotees stays.



589. Before Rama went to Lanka,

he worshiped Shiva on the shore of the ocean.

O devotees, worship Rameswaram 

where Rama worshiped Shiva.



590. In Rameswaram, Rama made a bridge

to go to Lanka. I worship Rameswaram

but am unable to praise the god with my tongue.

That is how my body suffers.



591. In Rameswaram, Rama killed with his bow

the Rakshasa with shoulders as large a hillocks.

O heart, if you know what is right,

go and praise the god in Rameswaram.



592. In Rameswaram, Rama constructed a bridge,

went to Lanka and killed Ravana.

Those who go there and praise the god

will receive what they desire.



593. O heart, the Rakshasas thought they were strong

and fought with Rama. Vishnu fought them

and destroyed their valor

Such is Rameswaram. Go and worship the god there.



594. If devotees go and worship

the god of Rameswaram

where Vishnu destroyed the evil Rakshasas

all their karma and sickness will go away.



595. The Rakshasas used their bows

and killed many on this earth.

Vishnu came and killed them in Rameswaram. 

If devotees go there and worship the god,

that will be the fruit of their tapas.



596. In Rameswaram, Vishnu killed all the Rakshasas

who were powerful because of their tapas.

O heart, you should also go and worship the god there.

That is the good path you should take.



597. Vishnu fought the strong, cruel Rakshasas

and killed them in Rameswaram.

Devotees who worship the god there

will reach Shiva and be with him.



598. Vishnu went to Rameswaram and killed

the Rakshasas with shoulders strong as hillocks

who wore jeweled crowns.

Devotees worship the god of the temple there

that on the shore of the ocean.

-------------


Padiham 62. Thiruvalavay

 
599. You are the Vedas and song in the Vedas,

you are god of the gods in the sky and light.

Devotees come, sprinkle flowers on your feet,

and worship you. O ancient god,

half your body is your wife Uma

and the crescent moon shines in your jata.

Give us your grace. You are my father,

O god of Thiruvalavay



600. I praise you saying, “You are my friend,

you are the chief of four headed Brahma

you are the lord of the gods in the sky,

you are wise, 

you are gold, the lord,” and wander behind you. 
I am a dog. O my friend, you are my father.

Give me your grace so I will not be born again,

O god of Thiruvalavay



601. You are a cure for all of the world and the gods in the sky.

You are sweet like nectar.

You are the best medicine, 

you remove the bad karma of your devotees,

you are the god of Thiruvalalvaay.

You are my father, give me your grace.



602. You are the god of gods

and the gods worship your lotus feet.

You have a dark throat, 

and you carry a deer and an axe in your hands.

You are Saivam.

You are the god of Thiruvalavay,

I am not smart and I am like dog.

You are my father, give me your grace.



603. You wandered carrying the skull of Brahma

and begged in all houses.

You did not want to eat the food that you received

but drank poison.

I have not thought of you always.

You are the god of Thiruvalavay, 

you are the world,

O lord, you are my father, give me your grace.



604. The world saw that you drank poison

without thinking how harmful it is. 

I worship your lotus feet

thinking that you are my refuge.

You are the powerful one,

O god of Thiruvalavay, and I am your slave.

O father, tell me not to be afraid

and give me your grace.



605. I am your devotee and I worship you continuously. 

You drank the poison that came out of the milky ocean with waves. 

You carry a bow, 

You are a dancer, 

You are always beautiful.

You are the god of Thiruvalavay.

O father, give me your grace.



606. You have Vishnu as a part of you

and recite all six Upanishads.

I bring every day a fragrant flower and water

to praise you and worship you.

You are my father. Give me your grace

so I may reach your divine feet.

You know all, O god of Thiruvalavay.



607. When a spider made a web as a roof to save you

you made the spider be born a king in its next birth.

I think if I do the same as the spider

and take care of you, loving you in my heart,

you will give me your grace to see you.

You are the god of Thiruvalavay.

O father, give me your grace.



608. I will not be able to survive

wearing ashes on my body

and thinking of your divine feet every day

and reciting your name.

You pushed the twenty shoulders of Ravana

the king of Lanka into the earth.

You, strong one, are the god of Thiruvalavay.

O father give me your grace.

---------------


Padiham 63. Thiruvannamalai

 
609. You share your body with your wife Uma,

carry a shining axe, and have eight strong arms.

You are a light, the ancient one, 

the king of the gods in the sky

O god of beautiful Annamalai mountain,

I have no other thoughts than of you.



610. You have Uma as a part of you

whose sweet words are like music.

You have a dark blue throat

and are adorned with a kondrai flower

that bloomed in the autumn.

You have lotus feet and you are in the sky.

You are the king of the gods

O god of beautiful Annamalai mountain,

I am your slave and have no words except to praise you.



611. He is the form and life of all the worlds.

The great lord, is karma, birth and moksha.

He is the god of gods in the sky. 

He is in Thiruvannamalai

where from waterfalls bring gold.

I want to only worship your feet,

I have no other refuge.



612. You are precious gold, 

You are a coral hillock,

O highest lord, you wear white ashes,

you are pure gold.

You feet are beautiful lotuses.

You are a precious diamond.

You are beautiful gold,

You are the god of rich Thiruvannamalai.

My precious gold,

I do not have any other thought except you.



613. The crescent moon shines in your beautiful jata. 

O Pinnaaga, you have your wife Uma as a part of you.

You recited all the Vedas, 

O lord, You are decorated with kondrai flower garland, 

swarming with bees on your jata.

You are the vaamadevan

You are ornamented with sounding anklets,

You are the god of Thiruvannaamalai,

O god, I do not think of anyone except you.



614. Ganga flowing with water is in your matted jata.

You peeled an elephant’s skin and cover yourself with it.

You are Yama for Yama.

You are beautiful.

You stay in the Annamalai hills where there are many monkeys,

Bees with lines on their wings sing, flying around your garland,

I will not forget your divine feet.



615. You are the sun, moon, sky, the large earth, water, wind

and the eight underworlds where the snakes live.

You are all the directions and light.

You shine like the light of the diamonds dropped by snakes.

You stay in the beautiful Annamalai hills,

I do not have anything except your divine feet to protect me.



616. You gave the Pasupata weapon to Arjuna.

You keep Ganga with her rolling water in your jata.

You are in Thiruvannaamalai hills where thundering clouds float.

You are our pilgrimage,

I do not have anything except your divine feet to hold on to.



617. You are bathed with the five products of milk.

You were not found by Brahma and Vishnu when they searched for you.

You are the god of the beautiful Thiruvannaamalai hills

covered with clouds and filled with paakku trees.

You ride on the white bull. 

I will not forget your lotus feet.



618. You punished Yama when he came to take away Markandeya.

When Ravana came to dig up and carry your Kailasa mountain

you pushed his ten heads into the earth with one toe.

You are a strong bull of the gods in the sky

and you stay in Thiruvannamalai.

I bow to you and praise you.

I will not forget your divine feet.

-------------


Padiham 64. Thiruveezimizalai

 
619. The god of Thiruveezimizalai has an army of Bhudams.

He wears a snake on his waist.

On his chest he wears a sacred thread.

The crescent moon shines in his jata.

He has a dark throat.

He recites the Vedas with music.

He is the meaning of the Vedas.

Devotees worship him with sacrifice.



620. The god of Thiruveezimizalai

has a body red as the morning sun.

His throat is dark as night.

In the evening he is ornamented with the crescent moon.

He gives to his devotees his grace that is as sweet as

milk, honey and sugar juice.



621. The god of Thiruveezimizalai,

gives grace to his devotees today, yesterday and tomorrow.

He stays under the shadow of Banian tree and taught

the Vedas to the four Rishis.

He is like Brahma and Vishnu.

Those who lie do not understand him.



622. The god of Thiruveezimizalai

destroyed the three forts with fire and wind

using the bow that is Himalaya mountain

with a snake for the string.

The gods worship him with garlands

and he wears a divine sacred thread.



623. The god of Thiruveezimizalai

is the meaning of the Vedas.

He is the nectar of flowers,

the ghee in milk and the sweetness of sugarcane.

The crescent moon shines in his jata

where Ganga flows, he has a snake around his waist

and he wears a kondrai garland.

He is like the fire hidden in firewood.



624. No one can describe the god of Thiruveezimizalai,

He exists and does not exist.

A part of his body is Parvathi.

He is like wind, sound and touch.

He is five in the senses, four in water,

three in fire and one in sky.



625. The god of Thiruveezimizalai has as a part of him

Uma whose breasts are fragrant with sandalwood.

He sings the Sama Veda.

He is my father and the father of my father and of his father.

In the morning and evening he gives his grace

to the Brahmins who worship him with sacrifices, pouring ghee.

He is red like fire.



626. When Vishnu worshiped the god of Thiruveezimizalai

with a thousand lotuses and one was missing,

Vishnu gave his eye for it.

Then Shiva showed his grace by giving Vishnu the discus.

For those who desire moksha, he gives it,

and he takes away the sins of his devotees.

He has a body that shines like coral and a blue throat.

He is a seed that grows into a tender shoot.



627. The god of Thiruveezimizalai

gives his grace to his devotees,

removes their sins and gives them moksha.

His body is colored like coral, his throat is dark

and he is a seed that grows into a tender shoot.



628. When Ravana’s charioteer could not go past

Kailasa mountain, Shiva crushed his heads into the earth

and then gave Ravana his grace.

He is the god of Thiruveezimizalai.

-----------------


Padiham 65. Thiruccaykkadu

 
629. Markandeya always sprinkled flowers and worshiped Shiva.

When Yama came to take him to his land

Shiva came, kicked Yama and saved Markandeya. 

He is the lord of Thiruchaykkadu.



630. When the gods used Mandira mountain

as a churning stick and the snake as the rope

and churned the ocean, poison came up

and they were frightened.

Shiva came and drank the poison, making his throat dark.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



631. When Shiva was in the form of a lingam

under a naval tree, a spider made a web

to be a roof over his head to shade from the sun.

Shiva blessed the spider

to be born as a king in his next birth.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



632. When Arjuna was doing tapas,

Shiva came as a hunter and fought him.

Then he showed his grace and gave him a quiver.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



633. When Daksha was performing a sacrifice

with Indra, Brahma, Agni and the eight Vasus,

Shiva came and destroyed it.

He gave his grace to the moon.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



634. When Visarasarman did archana to the lingam

using milk and ghee and sprinkling kondrai flowers,

his father did not like it and tried to destroy the worship.

Visarasarman cut his father’s foot.

Then Shiva came and blessed him with a kondrai garland.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



635. Faultless Bhagiratha asked Shiva for a boon.

The gods praised Shiva and asked him the same.

Ganga came with many forceful streams of water to earth

and Shiva took the water on his jata.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



636. One day when Kannappar worshiped Shiva with meat and food,

blood came from the eye of the lingam

and Kannappar put his feet on the eye

and then used his own eye to stop the bleeding.

The bleeding stopped and the god blessed him.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



637. When Vishnu was worshiping Shiva

with a thousand lotus flowers, one flower was lost.

Vishnu took out one of his eyes with an arrow

to be a flower and continued the worship,

and Shiva showed his grace and gave him the discus.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.



638. When Ravana with ten heads and twenty arms

dug up Kailasa and carried it, Parvathi was frightened.

Shiva, using one toe, crushed his heads into the earth

but then blessed him to be always victorious.

He is the lord of Thiruccaykkadu.

------------


Padiham 66. Thirunagesvaram

 
639. He ties the snake on his waist.

His throat is dark.

He begs for food and eats it.

He gives his grace to his devotees.

He is a sweet god to those who sprinkle flowers 

and worship him night and day.

He is the god of Thirunagesvaram.



640. Shiva took the form of a hunter and fought with Arjuna. 

He lives in the forest.

Ganga with fragrant water flows on his jata.

He takes away the bad karma of his devotees.

He is famous all over the world.

He is the god of Thiru Nageswaram.



641. He burned the three forts of the Raksasas 

using Himalaya as a bow.

His feet are precious like gold.

He wears a tiger skin,

He is a companion for all 

who praise him with words and worship him.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



642. He has Uma, beautiful as a creeper, as half of his body,

He banner has a bull on it.

He is the color of pure gold.

He wear sacred ashes on his forehead.

He is a friend of those who praise and trust him saying,

“O god, you rule me.”

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



643. He wears the skin of an elephant

and he carries an axe.

A snake is tied around his waist.

He dances with his Bhudams

as the drums sound continually in all places. 

He is the chief dancer among the Bhudams.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



644. The crescent moon shines in his jata.

He has Uma as half of his body,

He recited theVedas,

Vishnu, Brahma the creator of the Vedas 

 and other gods bow to him.

The bells in the anklets on his feet

sound as sweet as honey.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



645. He does not help bad people.

He is easy to reach for those who approach him.

He skinned an elephant.

He punished Yama for Markandeya.

He has a dark throat because he drank the poison 

that came out of the milky ocean

making the gods afraid.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



646. He, the pure god embraces the breasts of Uma.

He rides on a fast bull.

He wears sacred ashes, 

he bent Himalaya and used it a bow. 

He ties a snake on his waist.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



647. He dances to the music of kokkarai,

the veena and other instruments.

He wears a five-headed snake around his waist.

He made women fascinated with him.

He laughs as he conquers his enemies.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.



648. He burned the three forts of his enemies.

He is the god of all the gods in the sky.

He destroyed the strength of Ravana 

who took Kailasa on his shoulders.

and also give him his grace.

He is the god of Thirunageswaram.

-------------


Padiham 67. Thirukkondeecharam

 
649. You are the god of Thirukkondeecharam,

surrounded with waves and fields.

I do not know how to control the desires of my five senses,

I do not know how not to be born in this world.

O god, a shining snake is tied on your waist,

Tell me not o be afraid.



650. O god of Thirukkondeecharam 

surrounded with fields where the waves break.

I am your slave. I was born in this world

and fell into the pit of my previous karma.

I carry this this body and suffer

and know no way to be rid of it.

You are the highest one and the god of the sky.

You know everything—tell me not to be afraid.



651. O god of Thirukkondeecharam

surrounded with fields where fish swim,

my body is made of bones and nerves

covered with skin, with blood flowing inside it

and with hair for its roof.

When my body comes to an end,

my relatives will cry for me

and I fear they will burn me in the burning ground.



652. O god of Thirukkondeecharam surrounded with fields,

the five senses make me do whatever they want.

I am unable to do anything against them.

You have a snake tied around your waist

and are the god who dance in the burning ground

that is your dancing hall.



653. O shining red god of Thirukkondeecharam,

my body has worms and holes.

The five senses and the ninety-six tattvas rule this body

and I suffer from the pain and desire they bring.



654. O god of Thirukkondeecharam

surrounded by groves with swarming bees,

I thought this body with its bad odor is true

and did not realize it is like a boat that is about to break apart.

I thought real life was to be with doe-eyed women.

I did not ever approach you or think of you.



655. O god of Thirukkondeecharam filled with tall palaces,

my five senses and the ninety-six tattvams are like merchants.

They stay in my body that is only a few feet long.

I do not when I can be free of this body.



656. O god of Thirukkondeecharam,

this false body is dirty and made of flesh that smells bad.

I do not know when I can leave it—it is of help to me.

I do not know the path I should take.



657. O god of Thirukkondeecharam

fenced by fields where fish frolic,

I have spent my life as a child

and then as a young man with women

whose hair was adorned with flowers,

and then became old and thin.

I had no ambition.



658. O god of Thirukkondeecharam,

when Ravana dug up and took Kailasa mountain,

he frightened Parvathi with spear-like eyes,

shining ornaments and dark soft fragrant hair.

You pushed him into the earth

crushing his heads and arms. 

----------------


Padiham 68. Thiruvalankadu

 
659. Ganga flows in his jata

and he is easy to attain for those who love him.

He is a friend for those who melt for him in their hearts.

He takes away the karma of his devotees.

He is the the lord of Thiruvalankadu

surrounded by fields of rich mud.



660. He has a fire-colored body, rides an angry bull

and is smeared with sacred ashes.

He is lord of Thirupazanam surrounded with fragrant groves,

the indestructible god of Thiruvalankadu.



661. He burned Kama with his third eye

and he burned the three forts of his enemies

and laughed at them. He stays in Thirupazanam

surrounded by groves where music never stops.

He who rules us is the lord Thiruvalankadu.



662. Shiva drank the poison and his throat became dark.

He dances in the burning forest wearing white sacred ashes.

He has Uma his wife as a half of his body.

Ganga flows in his jata, 

He is the lord of Thiruvalankaadu.



663. Shiva fought with Arjuna 

and then saw he was his devotee.

He took Arjuna’s arrows away and then gave them back

not wanting to fight with him.

He is the lord of Thiruvalangadu,

where divine water flows.



664. The lord of moksha wears the ashes

of his devotees who reach Kailasa.

He dances in the burning ground

to music that does not stop.

He is the god of Pazanam surrounded with flourishing groves.

He wears a snake around his waist

and is the god of Thiruvalangadu.



665. The lord of Thiruvalangadu has beautiful lotus feet.

He kicked Yama for Markandeya.

He takes away the births that trouble us all.

He is the god of Thiruppazanam surrounded with cool groves.



666. He is the lord of Thiruvalangadu.

He embraces his wife Uma

and Ganga flows in his jata.

He recites the Sama Veda.

He, the god of Thiruppazanam, dances with Kali.



667. He does not follow the philosophy of the Jains

but follows Saivism. He rides a strong bull.

The lord of Thiruvalangadu knows the faults

of his devotees and removes them.



668. The lord of Thiruvalangadu

pushed the heads of Ravana into the earth with his toe.

He takes away the faults of his devotees.

He is the god of Thiruppazanam surrounded by flourishing groves.

He is our chief and he rules us.

--------------


Padiham 69. Thirukkovalvirattam

 
669. I lead a useless life and have no good qualities.

I am a dog with many faults.

I took care of this dirty body and praised it

and I do not know where to get refuge.

I do not know how to worship to get your grace.

I am like a blind man, what should I do,

O lord of Thirukkovalvirattam?



670. You are the lord of Kovalur

where mangos ripen and fall.

I suffer because of my five senses

and my inconstant heart.

I do not know how to remove the pain they give.

I have asked you for help and am tired.

I am a burden for the earth.



671. I do not follow the advice of good people.

I did not make myself pure every day, O lord,

and did not remove all my desires.

I do not praise you and do not hate my birth.

I think of many things and suffer.

You are the lord of Kovalvirattam

where the waves of the ocean break on the shore.



672. The desires caused by the five senses

come and want to stay in my body.

My eyes, nose, ears, mouth and body

make me do whatever they want.

I do not know you, the ancient god.

I fell into the desires of the five senses

that are like Yama, O lord of Kovalvirattam.



673. I have not learned the tattvams

and I do not make my soul follow what they say.

I did not sprinkle flowers on your feet

and did not make my heart love you.

I have spent my life in a useless way,

O lord of Kovalvirattam.



674. My body made of the five elements has nine openings.

The five senses enter my body and rule it

and I cannot bear the pain they give me.

You are lord of Kovalvirattam.



675. My acts of karma come to me like an army and do not leave.

I did not give to others but took what others gave me.

Even though I could have praised you, I did not.

You are lord of Kovalvirattam.



676. I am innocent. I did not know birth is bad

and I fell into it and suffer. 

O ancient god, I do not live as your devotee.

I do not know what to do, O lord of Kovalvirattam. 



677. I did not do the things a devotee should do,

but became involved in marriage and children.

I did not love you and praise you

I did not live a good life, O lord of Kovalvirattam.



678. When the king of Lanka dug up Kailasa mountain

and carried it, you came and pushed his heads

into the earth with your toe. Then you listened

to his music gave him a sword and blessed him.

You are lord of Kovalvirattam

surrounded by kuravam and kongu trees.

---------------


Padiham 70. Thirunanipalli

 
679. He is the true help.

He is the first one of all the three gods,

He recited all the Vedas,

He is light.

If devotees worship him and melt for him,

he will be their dear friend.



680. A spider could not bring flowers and water

and did abhisekham for Shiva.

The spider made a web to be a roof for the statue of the god 

and shade it.

Shiva gave his grace 

and made the spider a king in his next birth.

He is the god of Nanipalli.



681. O,god of Nanipalli surounded with groves, 

flourishing with kuravam, veengai and shenbagam trees.

The ninety six tattoos in my body 

give me trouble without mercy and I am destroyed.



682. For the people, the god of Nanipalli

is the songs they sing,

the taste of the fruits they eat,

the sight in their eyes, 

the thoughts in their minds,

all the seven worlds,

and the god who takes away the karma

of those who approach him for refuge.



683. If devotees continually, without forgetting, recite

at dawn and evening the manthra, “Namashivaaya,”

their love for Shiva will increase and grow.

The god of Nanipalli changed poisoned food 

that the evil Jains had given to people to milk rice.



684. Brahma seated on a beautiful lotus 

was not able to see Shiva’s head 

when he took the form of a bird, flew and searched for it.

Vishnu who carries a discus was not able to see

Shiva’s feet when he took the form of a boar

and dug into the earth.

The god of Nanipalli takes away the karma 

of the devotees who praise the lord, saying, “You are faultless”

and gives his grace to them.



685. Shiva drank the poison 

that came out of the milky ocean

when the gods and the Asuras churned it 

using the snake vasuki a rope to get the nectar from it. 

The god of Nanipalli will not allow his devotees to fall into hell

if they always serve him as his slaves.



686. (Missing in original).



687. Ravana dug up and took Kailasa mountain

and carried it with his twenty arms.

Shiva came and pushed his heads into the earth

with one toe, injuring Ravana.

Ravana sang praising Shiva and the god forgave him 

and gave his grace.

He is the god of Nanipalli.

---------------


Padiham 71. Thirunagaikaronam

 
688. O heart, do not want to be 

with wife, parents, children and other relatives.

That will only give you trouble.

In Nagai surrounded by the roaring ocean

the lord of Karonam stays.

If you think of him always your troubles will disappear.



689. Shiva, the red one carried on his shoulders

Vishnu, the god who swallowed the world.

He carries the skull of Brahma

who sits on a lotus and he wanders about.

He stays in the temple of Karonam

in Nagai surrounded by the roaring ocean.

O heart, you thought of him and we will survive.



690. He is a dancer, he is faultless,

he is above the sky and the world of the gods.

He recites the Vedas and is the reason for the Vedas.

He created everything.

That unique lord stays in the temple of Karonam

in Nagai surrounded by the roaring ocean.

If we understand him in our hearts we will survive.



691. Vishnu took the earth from Mabali.

When the Asuras and the gods churned the milky ocean

amrta and poison came out and he drank the poison,

making his throat dark. He is the god of Karonam

in Nagai surrounded by the roaring ocean.

O heart, think of the god in the sky and we will survive.



692. In his jata adorned by the crescent moon

and a snake Ganga flows.

He recites the Vedas and he dances in the burning ground.

His throat is dark and he is the god of Karonam

in Nagai surrounded by the roaring ocean.

If we praise that lord every day,

all our troubles will go and happiness will come to us.



693. He skinned the elephant that had a dark trunk.

He is Ekambam and kicked Yama for Markandeya.

He is worshiped by all the world.

He is the god of the gods.

O heart, if you think of him who has a red body

and stays in Karonam in Nagai our troubles will disappear.



694. When Shiva became a hunter and went in the forest

with his wife he fought with Arjuna and gave him

the Pasupatham weapon.

He is the lord of Karonam where women always dance.

We will be happy worshiping him day and night.



695. He conquered and burned the three forts of the Rakshasas 

with one arrow. He is always in our hearts.

He is the lord of Karonam where all scholars

come to worship his feet.

Those who praise the god will get the benefit of being born,

but others will have no benefit from their birth.

--------------


Padiham 72. Thiruvinnambar

 
696. Ravana could not prevail against one toe

of the god of Karonam in Nagai

surrounded by the roaring ocean.

The lord has two wives, Ganga and Parvathi.

We bow to the divine feet of the god

whose body is like gold.

We worship him and survive.



697. He is the god of all the gods in the sky

and is worshiped by his many devotees.

Uma is a part of him, and he is both man and woman.

When he stood as a pillar of fire,

Brahma and Vishnu searched for his head and feet

and could not find them.

He is Esan and has many forms. 



698. He recites the Vedas and has a snake tied around his waist,

in long jata is the shining moon, he carries an axe

and is the beloved of Uma. I am his.

He is the lord Esan.



699. He holds a deer in his hand and Uma is a part of him.

He made me leave the Jains and become his devotee.

He wears a garland in his jata, where Ganga flows.

He is my lord Esan.



700. He has a throat that was darkened by poison.

He destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice.

He rides a swift white bull.

He kicked Yama to save Markandeya.

He has a snake tied around his waist.

and he wears a tiger skin.

He takes away the troubles of all and gives his grace.

He is the lord Esan.



701. Lord Shiva wears a kondrai flower garland

swarming with bees in his beautiful jata.

He stays with Parvathi, beautiful as a dancing peacock.

He opened his third eye and burned Kama.

He has a huge form and covers all the worlds

He wears white ashes, 

He comes to his dear devotees when they need him.

He is the god Isan.



702. He has a bow and arrows.

He wears the skin of an elephant,

His companion is his wife Uma.

He stays on his mountain shining like a pure jewel.

His devotees sprinkle flowers on his feet and worship him.

He is the god Isan.



703. His arms are strong as hills.

Ganga flows in his jata.

He wears a sacred thread, 

the skull of a turtle and a boar horn on his chest.

He is Rudra murthi.

He burned the three forts of the evil Rakshasas

who have no compassion for others.

He is our god Isan.



704. He lives in the forest.

His voice is like thunder.

He took the form of a hunter for Arjuna.

He has the white crescent moon in his jata.

He wears a kondrai flower garland on his jata

made of tunbai, vanni flowers mixed with 

the feathers of a heron.

He is our god Isan.



705. He drank the poison from the milky ocean.

He has eight arms,

His body is smeared with white ashes.

One can’t know who he is.

He begs on the streets for his food

carrying the skull of Brahma.

He carries a banner with a bull on it.

He is our god Isan. 



706. He conquered Ravana, the king of Lanka 

who dug up Kailasa mountain,

crushing him under the mountain.

He fought with Arjuna, defeated him, 

and he gave him a weapon.

The divine Ganga flows in his beautiful jata.

All the seven worlds praise him and they belong to him.

He is the _god Isan. 

-------------


Padiham 73. Thirucherai

 
707. Paravathi, the daughter of the king Himalaya

fought with Shiva and left him. 

Then she was born again as the daughter of the king Himalaya

and did tapas to get Shiva as her husband.

Shiva came to her and married her 

and kept her as a part of his body.

He is the excellent path that is the god of Thirucherai.



708. I believed the Jains who do not know what truth is 

and I fell into confusion and their false world.

I did not know what to do.

When I suffered with stomach pain 

the god Isan cured my sickness

that occurred in this birth and made me his slave.

He is the excellent path that is the god of Thirucherai.



709. Arjuna, the most proficient archer, 

did tapas with whole mind for a long time 

and worshiped the feet of Shiva.

The god went to the forest in the form of a hunter 

and gave his grace to Arjuna. 

He is the excellent path that is the god of Thirucherai.



710. story of Bagiradan: 

God has the power of controlling all his five senses and does tapas.

When Ganga angrily came from the sky in many strong flows. 

Bagirathan prayed to god and asked him to save the world.

Shiva stopped the flow of Ganga and took its water on his jata.



711. When Visaradharman made a shivalingam

with sand on Maniyaaru and poured milk on it for abhisekham,

his father kicked it and and he cut his father’s foot. 

Shiva came to the river, gave his grace,

named him Chandeesar and blessed him.



712. When Ganga descended from the sky,

Shiva, carrying a trident and a small drum,

took the form of Bhairava 

and took its water on his head as Ganga descended from the sky.

Uma was afraid when she saw Shiva skin the elephant

The God of Thirucherai laughed and gave his grace to all. 



713. All the gods sprinkling flowers 

worshiped Shiva and requested him to help them 

when the three Raksasas came to fight with them. 
Shiva saw the three flying forts of the Raksasas,

burned them all, and saved the gods, giving them his grace.

He is the god of Thirucherai. 



714. Brahma. creator the world 

and Vishnu, the protector,

worshiped Shiva and asked him to help them.

Shiva took a huge form. 

Brahma became a swan and Vishnu became a boar

they searched for Shiva’s head and feet.

Shiva gave his grace to them and showed his head and feet. 

He is the lord of Thirucherai. 



715. Ravana, the Raksasa who has more strength than all, 

dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it on his shoulders.

Shiva crushed mountain with his toe pushing it deep into the earth

and crushing Ravana’s shoulders and heads. 

Ravana worshiped Shiva saying, “You are my dear god”

and Shiva was happy, raised his foot and gave his grace to Ravana.

--------------


Padiham 74. Podu

 
716. Shiva is pearl, diamond and gold.

He is like coral and a diamond necklace.

He is a bunch of goodness.

He is the origin of the sacrifices of the Vedas

and praised by gods. 

He is the lord of the answers to all questions.

He is the god my heart thinks of all the time.

I want to think of that beautiful lord always. 



717. He is the ancient lord and the god of all the worlds. 

He is joy praised by all the sages.

He is the lord who skinned the elephant

while Uma looked on, frightened. 

He is our friend and my heart thinks of him always. 



718. He is sweeter than sugarcane, 

He is the light of hot sun.

He is the nectar from the milky ocean.

He does not have birth or death.

He is the great word that is “om” and its meaning.

He is the gold praised by sages.

My heart thinks of him always. 



719. He wanted to destroy his enemies 

and he shot his arrows and killed them. 

His body is golden.

He is the only god praised by the gods in the sky.

He shared half of his body with Uma his wife.

He dances without stopping.

My heart thinks of him always. 



720. He is Yama for Yama.

He the young one who rides a white bull.

He is praised by all the gods.

In his jata Ganga flows

and he is the nectar praised by his devotees.

He who wears white ashes is sweetness and yoga.

O heart, you think of him always.



721. He skinned the dark long-trunked elephant.

He, a shining light, is loved by all.

He is the lord of Kailasa

and half of his body is his wife Uma.

He is like fire and my heart things of him always.



722. He is justice and stays in the hearts of those who think of him.

He is all differences and wears ashes as white as a conch shell.

He is the light of the gods in the sky

and he is the light that has no faults.

He is the ancient, measureless one.

He is in the hearts of all.



723. He is the beautiful one and is easy to reach

for all in the world. 

He skinned the king of elephants

while his wife shivered in fright.

He is the beautiful one with the cool moon in his jata.

All hearts in the world think of him.



724. He is like lightning in the sky.

There is no one equal to him.

He is the pupil of the eyes of all.

He is light in the darkness.

He took a huge form and Brahma and Vishnu

could not find his head or feet.

My heart thinks of him always.



725. He is mighty and pushed strong-armed Ravana into the earth.

He destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas.

He is the lord of the gods in the sky,

wears the cool moon in his jata.

and is adorned with a snake.

My heart thinks of him always.

-----------


Padiham 75. Podu

 
726. I feel sad that I have not brought water

from the Kaviri to do abhishekam for the god,

put kumkumum and a garland on him

and gazed on him happily.

I have wasted my life.



727. I do not know my future or my past.

You are the one who can take away my births.

You are inside me and wear in your jata

the shining crescent moon.

You, the king of the gods, are the lord of Shivapuram.

Without you I have no help.

You wear sacred ashes on your chest.



728. I am a thief who spent my life pretending to be a devotee.

Now I understand myself and know you are my god.

I know that you are in the hearts of those who think of you

and am ashamed and laugh at myself.



729. Your house is my heart.

The light in that house is my feelings.

My life is the wick, and I lighted the lamp, garlanded you

and saw you there, O father of Murugan.



730. In your jata you wear the flowing Ganga,

a snake that never sleeps and the crescent moon.

I am a cheater and am like a woman who cannot sleep.

I cannot sleep because I do not think of you.

What can I do?



731. You are in the hearts of those who think of you.

I think of you but cannot see you.

My heart is like an ant caught in fire and unable to get out.

I think of you but cannot see you.



732. I am surrounded by karma like a crow that sees meat. 

I am confused living in this world

My body is decaying—I ask you to come

and give me the wisdom of Shiva.



733. You are white as a conch shell.

I want to be rid of this birth and reach you.

I feel like a dog, having this life.

Where are you, I ask. Come and give me your grace.



734. You wear the crescent moon in your jata.

HYoue came into my heart.

I asked, “Are you a thief?”

You laughed and said,

“I am he who wears Ganga in his jata.”



735. You, the husband of Uma,

pushed Ravana into the earth,

but you did not come to me.

Yet I am searching for you,

keeping you in my heart.

------------


Padiham 76. Podu

 
736. My mind is confused.

I am not intelligent.

I do not think of joining

the feet of my father, the god.

I did not receive his grace. 

but when I had the yearning to reach my god

I received wisdom and bright light in my mind. 



737. If someone follows the good path of Shiva, 

and has the desire to reach him, 

never telling lies, and if he wears sacred ashes 

and always worships the god,

he can reach the place of Shiva.



738. God came into my mind only because I asked him.

He makes me do everything he wants me to do,

yet still I search for him in my heart.

If he knows and understands that I think of him

and how I want to follow him, it is enough.

I cannot do anything else.



739. We make our bodies into temples for him

and our minds his slaves.

The purity in my mind is the place where he stays.

He has the form of a Sivalingam

and I pour my love as milk and ghee for him.

This is how we want to worship him.



740. O you with a blue throat,

I was wandering on bad paths and you saved me.

That is the grace you showed me,

but I could not keep you in my mind.

Why do you not give your goodness and save me?



741. I am lower than a dog.

You showed me good paths and saved me.

You tie the thousand-headed snake on your waist.

You, sweet as nectar, entered my heart.

If you come into my heart, what suffering can come to me?



742. I cannot say who you are.

You came into my heart like honey

and I taste the sweetness.

You are in my heart and my breaths

but my eyes cannot see you

and I cannot tell others how to find you.



743. I am bound by my desires for the world

and want to enjoy the pleasures of life.

O god, you are the light and lord of the world.

You stay in Thirumaraikadu and protect all life.

Give me your grace to worship your feet.



744. O lord with a jata adorned with kondrai flowers,

I have no satisfaction in my mind or true love for others

and I am without the desire to think of you.

I suffer with good and bad karma.

Give me your grace so I can escape

this prison that is the world. What can I do?

Take away all my faults so I can praise you.



745. O lord with a shining jata,

when Yama comes near me, I will not know he has come

and my five senses will still want to enjoy the world

and will harm me. I do not have the patience to endure them.

Human life is filled with faults.

Take away birth from me.

---------------


Padiham 77. Podu

 
746. O god, carrying a skull

and dancing in the middle of the day,

you wander everywhere and ask for food.

Even though you have a wife, the daughter of Himalaya,

with lovely earrings and soft curly hair,

why do you wander about wearing a loincloth?



747. He wears a loincloth

and has tied a poisonous snake around his waist.

He is colored like fire, wears sacred ashes

sits on a tiger skin and carries a bow.

Who can make his image?



748. Lighting lamps, sprinkling flowers on the god,

and worshiping him takes a devotee to the god’s world.

If a devotee puts lamps before the god, that will bring true wisdom.

Praising the god with music and song will give his grace.



749. The lord wears the crescent moon in his jata.

He, Sankara, who recites the Sama Veda,

is the lord of all the gods in the sky and rides on a white bull.

If you wear sacred ashes and say, “Namashiva,”

all your sickness and karma will go away like wood in a fire.



750. The five senses, like hunters and thieves,

enter my heart, run all over and disturb me.

If you put the evil they give at the feet of Shiva,

you will receive the knowledge of Shive

and he will lead your heart on a good path.



751. You are in the sky and are the lord of the gods in the sky,

you know everything and are beyond fear.

You wear Ganga with its flowing waves in your jata.

I, your devotee, was born and, collecting much karma,

carried this body and suffered from desires.



752. My heart was born with bad karma.

and is like a pig running about and rolling in dirt.

If you think of me and give your grace,

I will reach your world.

You gave me this rotten body thinking it is beautiful.



753. When Ravana carried Kailasa mountain,

frightening your wife and you pushed his head into the earth,

he did not oppose you.

If you, adorned with the moon, put your feet on my head,

I worry that it might hurt your foot.

----------------


Padiham 78. Podu

 
754. I have not controlled my five senses,

have not joined devotees and am afraid of going on good paths.

I am in the world and do not know what to do.

O lord, I am here today but will not be here tomorrow.

What can I do? I was born in this world.



755. I am not learned, do not have wisdom,

have not studied any of the arts,

and have not been with learned people.

I am far from the feelings I should have.

Women with beautiful eyes do not desire me.

O lord, why am I still here in this world where I was born.



756. I do everything my mind desires

but do no know anything about this life or my future life.

I have not worshiped you now or before now.

I have desired everything in this world, collecting sin,

and am unable to get away from my desires.

What can I do? I was born in this world.



757. The lord has a throat darkened by the poison

from the ocean with rolling waves.

I did not know how to go through this world

without any desire, O lord with a snake around your waist.

I am filled with the desires of the world and melt for them.

What can I do? I was born in this world.



758. The lord wears white ashes 

and is the god of the gods in the sky.

He takes away all my karma and sickness.

I did not search for him and become his slave

but in this birth I melt for his grace.

What can I do? I was born in this world.



759. I always spoke badly of others

and did not know how to avoid evil things.

I have no understanding of the greatness of the god

that comes from reciting mantras constantly.

I am still in this body and say bad things.

What can I do? I was born in this world.



760. He is loved by all the world,

he has Vishnu as a part of him,

he is worshiped by all,

he is pure,

he is in the lotus heart of his devotees, 

he is our friend,

he carries fire in his hands, 

he is the goodness in the hearts of all.

I do not know him, what can I do?

I am born in this world. 



761. I have not trying to control my bad karma.

My hair has grown white and I am old.

He has Ganga flooding with water in his jata.

I have not praised him and am confused.

I cough and hold a stick to walk.

What can I do? I am born in this world. 



762. I do not understand what my future will be.

I only suffer and am always immersed in pain.

I do not know anyone who can help me.

My father, I have not learned any music to attract you.

I am not young and can no longer love young women with lovely hair.

My father, what can I do? I am born in this world.



763. When brave Ravana dug up Kailasa mountain,

Shiva pushed with his toe all the heads of Ravana into the earth.

Ravana worshiped Shiva, playing and singing the Sama Veda. 

Shiva listened to his music, was pleased and forgave him.

I do not know how to praise the god as Ravana did.

What can I do, I am only born in this world. 

-----------------


Padiham 79. Podu

 
764. He is my father, my nectar

the beginning and end of the earth, 

and the bright light.

I do not think of him in my heart.

I am only involved in my desire for women.

What can I do, I am only born in this world. 



765. I have only been involved in family life

with a wife and children, protecting them.

I have not thought of god or done tapas.

I see that this body comes from the womb,

continues in this world, and disappears,

but I still try to protect it.

What can I do, I am only born in this world. 



766. I was not a devotee and was not involved

in worshiping the god. I fell into bad karma.

I have not praised him with beautiful music.

I am old now and women are not attracted to me.

I am poor now—what can I do,

I am only born in this world. 



767. My old karma did not allow me to think of the god.

Now I have become his devotee

and am crazy for him, muttering his name,

He is in my heart yet I do not think of the greatness of the lord.

What can I do, I am only born in this world. 



768. I have not learned music to please the dark-throated lord

and I do not know how to fascinate women

with foreheads like the crescent moon.

I do not worship the lord who gave the Vedas to the world.

I do not entreat and praise him—

what can I do, I am only born in this world. 



769. My five senses make me tremble

like a tortoise thrown into boiling water.

I am weak and stay in this world and suffer.

What can I do, I am only born in this world. 

-------------


Padiham 80. Kovil

 
770. In Thillai pakku trees grow tall, the palaces are large,

and valai fish swim happily in the ponds.

If I can see the dance of the lord in the divine hall,

is there anything else to see with my eyes?



771. Shiva rides on a white bull.

He wears the skin of a tiger,

He is the husband of beautiful Uma, the daughter of Himalaya.

He dances in the divine hall in rich Thiruchirambalam where Brahmins live. 

I saw his divine feet—

what is there more for my eyes to see?



772. When Vishnu and Brahma worshiped Shiva

with flowers, fragrances and sandal paste,

they could not see him.

He is the lord of the dancing hall in Thillai

and is adorned with white sacred ashes. 

I saw him there with his tiger skin.

What is there more for my eyes to see?



773. My treasure is the word Namachivaaya.

I do not have any fear.

He dances in Thillai, the dancing hall. 

He is a beggar, and he does not have birth. 

If I see the belt on his waist,

what is there more for my eyes to see?



774. The lord stays in Thillai Chitrambalam

where beautiful blue flowers bloom in the fields.

The blue-throated lord dances like a flame

burning from ghee and the daughter

of Himalaya mountain looks on with her lovely eyes.

After seeing this, what more is there for me to see?



775. When I followed the Jains, I had stomach pain

and Shiva cured me. He is sweet as honey to me.

The king of Thillai Chitrambalam drank the poison

to save the gods of the sky. After I have seen his beautiful bull

what more is there for me to see?



776. The god of Thillai Chitrambalam

who stays in the hearts of his devotees

burned the three forts with his arrow.

I saw his happy face with my eyes.

What more is there for me to see?



777. Shiva, the lord of Thillai Chitrambalam,

drank the poison that came from the ocean

when the gods and Indra said,

“We have no other refuge than you.”

He became angry and burned Kama with his third eye.

What more is there for me to see?



778. In Thillai Chitrambalam devotees who live there

worship the divine lotus feet of Shiva that grow in their hearts.

I will see the beautiful jata of him decorated with fresh flowers

and pearls and rubies. After seeing that,

what more is there for me to see?



779. The proud Ravana thought he was strong

and dug up Kailasa mountain with his hands.

Shiva, the husband of the daughter of Himalaya,

laughed and pushed the crowned heads of Ravana

into the earth with his toe.

What more is there for me to see?

---------------


Thevaaram - Thirunavukkarasar 

Padiham 81. Kovil  780 -789

Padiham 82. Thirukazumalam 790- 799

Padiham 83. Thirukazumalam 800

Padiham 84. Podu 801 -811

Padiham 85. Thiruchotruturai 812 -821

Padiham 86. Thiruvotriyur 822 -832

Padiham 87. Thirupazanam 833 -842

Padiham 88. Thirupunthuruthi 843 -852

Padiham 89. Thiruneythanam 853 -862

Padiham 90. Thiruvethikkudi 863 - 872

Padiham 91. Thiruvaiyaru 873 -882

Padiham 92. Thiruvaiyaru 883 - 902

Padiham 93. Thirukkandiyur Virattam 903 -912

Padiham 94. Thiruppathirippuliyur 913 -922

Padiham 95. Thiruvizimizalai 923 -932

Padiham 96. Thiruchathimutram 933 -942

Padiham 97. Thirunallur 943 -953

Padiham 98. Thiruvaiyaru 954- 955

Padiham 99. Thirukkacciyekampam 956 -965

Padiham 100. Thiruvinnambar 966- 975

Padiham 101. Thiruvarur 976 -985

Padiham 102. Thiruvarur 986 -992

Padiham 103. Thirunakaikkaronam 993 -1000

-------------


Padiham 81. Kovil

 
780. He, the king of the world, has a blue throat.

He gives whatever his devotees want 

like the kalpaka tree. He burned the three forts

of the Rakshasas and dances with fire in his hand.

He is the lord of Thillai Chitrambalam

and I praise him as the chief of the gods.



781. He kicked the angry Yama for Markandeya.

He is the dancer of Thillai Chitrambalam.

If you go and worship him, keeping him

in your heart, there is no death or birth for you.



782. O people, your hearts are strong.

You go to Thillai Chitrambalam where good people live

to achieve good things that come to your mind.

If you think of bad things what is the use of it?

In the golden mountains of the Himalayas

the clouds look like silver hills.

They came into my mind and stayed there.



783. If I can see his bent brow, his red mouth,

his smile, his cool jata, his coral-like body

smeared with milk-white ashes and his golden feet

do I need to be born again on this earth?



784. O devotees, be happy that you have received this birth, 

Worship the feet of the God who gave his grace to Arjuna.

He burned the three forts of the Raksasas.

You should be a slave to the dancing god in Thiruchitrambalam.

That is the right thing for you to do. 



785. His jata shines like gold, 

decorated with kondrai flowers.

His Ganas play music and dance happily

and the bees sing like the Ganas in Thiruchitrambalam.

My bangled daughter dances like Shiva.

Can anyone else attract her like he does?



786. The flower garland on his jata, 

the smile on his lips, 

the look of his three eyes, 

his hand that carries a small drum, 

the white ashes that he wears, 

Uma, as a part of him, 

and the tiger skin that he wears,

--all stay in my heart.

Now his ankleted dancing feet stay in my heart. 



787. The weapon that I use is the word, “Namashivaaya.”

I serve you without cease in all my seven birth,

I will not go away from you even if you want to send me away.

Wearing pure ashes, I will worship you.

You are my refuge, 

O lord with dark throat dancing in Thillai Chitrambalam.



788. He has a golden body,

He wears white ashes, 

the crescent moon shines in his jata.

He wanders begging with a skull,

he takes the form of a hunter, 

he dances in Thillai in the dancing hall,

and the world that sees him dancing is happy.



789. He raised his divine to kick at Daksha’s sacrifice.

His feet conquered Yama,

they made Brahma and Vishnu search, 

and they dance in Thillai Chitrambalam.

They give his grace to me and make me his slave. 

----------------


Padiham 82. Thirukazumalam

 
790. It is said that many birds carried your feet

when the world was covered with the water of the seas.

You are adorned with crescent moon on your jata

and Ganga flows in your jata. 

You dance in Thirukazumalam,

Are there any other places where the lives of this world 

can find refuge.



791. The streets of Thirukazumalam are filled

with banners and palatial houses.

Shiva comes in procession wearing a garland on his head

and riding a bull. The Brahmins of that place

come and dance around the lord,

happy that the karma that causes rebirth has been removed.



792. In Thirukazumalam the ocean brings pearls

and piles them on the shore,

and the women of neytal lands take them and run away. 

Devotees come there and sprinkle flowers on Shiva’s feet

and worship him. His feet give us grace always.



793. In Thirukazumalam, the music of the Vedas is sung by devotees

as Bhudhams beat the drums, sing and dance.

The lord cannot be described and his greatness cannot be told.

The divine feet of the lord will bless us to be his slaves.



794. In Thirukazumalam, before devotees even think of him,

Shiva takes away their karma.

They think that when they see his feet and worship them

they will become his slaves.



795. In beautiful Thiruthonipuram where water surges,

great and moral devotees live.

The lord of Thiruthonipuram burned Thirupuram with his bow.

His flower-like feet always rule us.



796. In Thirukazumalam the lord is adorned with a snake

that circles his body and a kondrai garland.

The crescent moon shines in his jata.

He burned the three forts of the Rakshasas

and his feet that we worship rule us. 



797. In this world people live with bodies and life.

The gods in the sky come to Thirukazumalam

when there is a festival. 

The lord who rides a bull rules us every day.



798. He drank the poison from the ocean.

Brahma and Vishnu worshiped him

when he stood as a pillar of fire

and all the other gods came to worship his feet.

His divine feet rule us.



799. With his toe, Shiva crushed the heads of Ravana,

the king of Lanka surrounded with water,

pushing them into the earth.

Devotees come and worship him in Thirukazumalam.

The feet of that lord rule me.

-------------


Padiham 83. Thirukazumalam

 
800. Shiva holds an axe in his hand.

His place is Thirukazumalam filled with banners and palaces.

There, kuruku birds fly around coconut trees

and bees drink nectar happily.

----------


Padiham 84. Podu

 
801. O lord you are god of all ten directions.

With one arrow, you destroyed the three forts

of the Rakshasas opening your third eye

when they came to fight with the gods.

My life is beneath the divine feet of Shiva.



802. He wears a snake tied on his waist

and in his jata is the crescent moon.

He is neither young or old.

He is the earth and the world of the gods

and all other worlds.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



803. He grew angry and destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice.

He carries a trident and fire in his hands.

The great lord has three eyes

and he causes the birth of everyone but has no birth himself.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



804. He has Uma whose eyes are sharp as swords

as part of himself. Around his waist is a snake

and he wears a tiger skin. 

On his forehead are divine ashes

and he wears a kondrai garland with golden flowers.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



805. He showed his grace to the gods

when he drank the poison, making his throat dark.

Ganga flows in his beautiful jata.

When he became angry at Arjuna,

he shot an arrow and wounded his chest.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



806. When Yama came to take the life of Markandeya,

Shiva became angry and kicked him,

thinking that what Yama wanted to do was not right.

He shot an arrow and burned the three forts of the Rakshasas.

He is the lord of all the Vedas.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



807. He became angry with Brahma and pinched off his head.

The skull became stuck to Shiva’s hand

and Vishnu came, filled it with his blood, and it fell.

He pushed the head of Ravana with one toe

into the earth and then gave him his grace.

My life is beneath the divine feet

of the lord who wears sacred ashes.



808. My life was frightened that it would be hurt

by the crowned king who came to fight with me,

and took refuge with the lord

who wears garlands of fragrant kondrai and nantivattam.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



809. He tied a tiger skin around his waist

and he frightened Uma when he fought with the elephant.

Ganga flows with its cool water in his jata.

He is happy to give his grace to his devotees

and my life is beneath his divine feet.



810. Uma with small feet like lotuses

was frightened when he burned Kama.

He stood as a pillar of fire when Vishnu and Brahma

searched for his feet and head.

My life is beneath his divine feet.



811. He rides a white bull.

He dances on the lovely earth

as flutes and drums play.

With his toe he pushed the twenty shoulders of Ravana,

the king of Lanka, into the earth.

My life is beneath his divine feet.

--------------


Padiham 85. Thiruchotruturai

 
812. Thiruchotruturai is a place where he gods in the sky 

come in the morning bringing pure fragrant flowers.

How beautiful is the evening crescent moon

in the long jata of our lord!



813. Shiva’s jata is adorned with kondrai, vanni,

and mattam flowers swarming with bees, and with a snake.

Devotees come to Thiruchotruturai 

and worship the ankleted feet of the lord.

How beautiful the white garland

on the long jata of our lord!



814. The lord knows all the thoughts

and the passions of the hearts of his devotees.

He, the lord in the sky, removes their bad karma.

He stays in Thiruchotruturai adorned with bright earrings.

How beautiful the crescent moon shining

in the long jata of our lord!



815. A snake is wrapped around his waist and he rides a bull.

He dances in Thillai carrying a deer.

Devotees sprinkle flowers on the feet

of the lord who stays in Thiruchotruturai.

How beautiful the lord with the trident in his hand!



816. Shiva kicked Yama for Markandeya.

A snake is tied around his waist,

and he wears sacred ashes

and the skin of a tiger that he fought.

Ganga flows in his hair,

and the pure moon also shines in his long jata.

How beautiful the lord with his bow!



817. When the Asuras argued with the gods and fought them,

and the gods came to Shiva and asked his help,

he, the lord of Thiruchotruturai smeared with sacred ashes,

fought with the Asuras for the gods.

How beautiful the Ganga floating in his long jata!



818. He shot an arrow and destroyed the three forts

of the Rakshasas. He wears white ashes.

He is the lord of Thiruchotruturai,

How beautiful the white-waved Ganga in his long jata!



819. He drank the poison that came

from the ocean of milk churned by the gods.

He burned Kama with the eye in his forehead.

He is the god of gods who stays in Thiruchotruturai.

How beautiful the crescent moon in his long jata!



820. Brahma and Vishnu could not find the feet

and head of the lord when he became a pillar of fire.

His throat is dark, and the crescent moon shines in his jata.

How beautiful the snake with a jewel in his long jata!



821. With his toe he pushed

the heads of Ravana into the earth.

He carries a shining axe

and is lord of Thiruchotruturai.

How beautiful the crescent moon in his long jata!

-------------


Padiham 86. Thiruvotriyur

 
822. When Shiva killed the elephant, 

his crescent moon was like the tusk of an elephant, 

the snake that circled the crescent moon 

was like its kimpuri ornament,

and his forehead eye of Shiva was like pearl

that dropped from the tusk of an elephant.



823. I have something to tell you.

You do not see the troubles of your devotees.

O lord of Thiruvotriyur

where waves of the ocean dash on the shore

bringing coral.



824. Are you going to make your devotees happy?

The waves of Ganga flow in your jata

and you are adorned with a snake and a fragrant kondrai garland

while the crescent moon shines in your jata.

You stay in Thiruvotriyur

where the waves of the ocean dash on the shore.



825. He dances in the burning ground

and begs for food carrying a skull.

He, the lord of Thiruvotriyur

where flowers drip with nectar,

wanders around and begs for food.



826. He drank the poison that came from the milky ocean

and made his throat dark. His jata is garlanded with flowers.

O devotees worship the lord who stays in Thiruvotriyur

surrounded by flourishing groves, paddy land and sugar cane. 



827. In his jata there is a snake in its anthill,

the moon, small-waisted Ganga and a garland.

He rides a white bull and is praised by all.

He, the lord of Thiruvotriyur, is always with me

and rules me so I will do anything he asks.



828. There is no one with one eye and a half eye,

but when Shiva married Uma 

and gave her half of his body

his three eyes were divided

and he was left with one and a half eye.

He is the god of Thiruvotriyur.



829. O Shiva, anyone would buy the rich town of Thiruvotriyur

where the groves swarm with bees

but if you wanted to sell that town,

it would not be right because you could never

find another place like that.



830. O my evil karma, the lord of Thiruvotriyur

is in my heart and will not leave it.

What can you do if you want to stay there?

You cannot. The only thing you can do

is make me grow old and make my eyes,

my teeth and tongue become useless.



831. In the jata of the smiling lord of Thiruvotriyur

who dances in the burning ground

many things flourish—a garden of mullai flowers,

Ganga who brings precious jewels,

an anthill where a snake lives,

and the sky for the crescent moon to shine.



832. Shiva pushed the heads of the Rakshasa Ravana

into the earth. He will take away my births.

What can I do—he drank the poison from the milky ocean

when the gods and the Asuras churned it.

He is the lord of Thiruvotriyur.

-------------


Padiham 87. Thirupazanam

 
833. O lord of Thirupazanam,

all my bad karma is giving me sorrow

and will not go away from me.

You know I want go to your land.

You should take me as your devotee.



834. All the gods come and stand

before the door of your temple.

Shiva and Brahma come also and stand with them.

O lord of Thirupazanam, I want to do service to you.

Give me your grace and take care of me.



835. O lord of Thirupazanam, you are above

all the seven worlds and dance. You are in all lives. 

You have Parvathi as part of your body

and the crescent moons shines in your jata.

You should take away the fear of being born again

in this world and help me.



836. O lord of Thirupazanam, you destroyed

with your arrow all the forts of the Rakshasas.

You killed the elephant and used its skin as a garment.

Ganga flows in your jata.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.



837. You destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas

and killed them. You know that other sects

worship other gods. You know their books,

O lord of Thirupazanam.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.



838. O lord of Thirupazanam, you give happiness to all.

You pinched off Brahma’s head

and destroyed Kama by opening your third eye.

You take away all my bad karma.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.



839. O lord of Thirupazanam,

you keep Thirumal as part of your body,

and you gave part of your body to your wife.

A snake is tied around your waist.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.



840. O lord of Thirupazanam, you abide on Mount Kailasa.

You fought with the Asuras and burned their forts with an arrow.

You are the life of everyone and you take away all their burdens

and give your grace to all who serve you.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.



841. O lord of Thirupazanam, you are the joy of all.

In your jata is Ganga flooding with water

and the daughter of Himalaya is part of you.

I keep you in my mind to serve you.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.



842. O lord of Thirupazanam, when Ravana tried

to carry Kailasa mountain you pushed his heads into the earth

with your toe, and took away the strength of him and his clan.

You take the skin of a tiger and wear it.

Give me your grace and keep me in your heart.

------------


Padiham 88. Thirupunthuruthi

 
843. He is lord of Thirupunthuruthi and stood as a pillar of fire

so that Vishnu could not reach his feet.

He is the husband of the daughter of Himalaya.

The crescent moon shines in his jata.

He conquered and destroyed the forts of the three Rakshasas.

He rides a white bull, and sits beneath a banyan tree.

He is the ancient lord and I worship his feet.



844. In one hand the lord of Thirupunthuruthi carries a deer

and in the other an axe. Parvathi is part of him.

No one knows who he is and no one can describe him.

He wears the snake around his waist.

He is wise, the ancient lord, and I worship his feet.



845. The lord of Thirupunthuruthi destroyed the three forts

of his enemies, the Rakshasas, with his bow and arrow.

He sits beneath a banyan tree.

He drank poison and he carries the burden of the earth.

His army is his Bhudams, and his throat is dark blue.

I worship his feet.



846. The lord of Thirupunthuruthi is the essence of knowledge

and the ancient one of all the eons.

He is praised and worshiped by devotees

who recite songs about you.

He created the world and takes away the karma of the devotees

who come to him. He is the source of all.

He has three eyes and I worship his feet.



847. He is lord of Thirupunthuruthi that is bright as gold.

He destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice. With one arrow,

he destroyed the three forts of the Asuras who opposed him. 

He is our king and I worship his feet.



848. The lord of Thirupunthuruthi wears a kondrai garland.

One part of him is Parvathi and the other part is the world.

His weapon is an axe and he carries a bow.

He is wealth and the shining god.

I worship his feet.



849. The lord of Thirupunthuruthi destroyed with his cruel bow

the thee forts of the Asuras who opposed him and burned them.

He is the creator and destroyer of the world.

A part of him is beautiful Uma.

No one knows who he really is. His jata is gold.

How can I know his character and worship the feet of my king?



850. He is the lord of Thirupunthuruthi.

A part of him is slender-waisted Uma bright as lightning

and he has a jata that shines like gold.

No one knows his qualities.

He is my father and god and I worship his feet.



851. He, the lord of Thirupunthuruthi,

is the god of destruction and the wisdom of all.

No one knows who he is, and he is colored red like fire.

I go to him for refuge and I worship his feet.



852. He is the lord of Thirupunthuruthi.

He pushed the Rakshasa Ravana into the earth

while his wives Uma and Ganga trembled in fear.

In his jata is a snake. He is the Vedas

and is beyond the earth. I worship his feet.

---------------


Padiham 89. Thiruneythanam

 
853. You stay on the banks of the Kaviri river in Thirunettthaanan.

You gave your grace and save all the people and gods, 

drinking the poison that came out of the milky ocean. 

Why are you begging around carrying a skull?

Is that necessary?



854. In your jata the crescent moon shines

and the water of Ganga flows.

You carry an axe in one hand and a deer in the other.

Tell me, why do you stay in Thiruneythanam

with your young wife?



855. All the world knows that you are like Yama

and that you fought with the three Asuras, 

and burned their three forts. 

You stay in Thiruneythanam flourishing the cool groves

on the bank of the Kaviri  flowing from Kudagu mountain.

The karma of his devotees who go there will go away. 



856. Shiva dances with the music of drums 

and he takes many forms as he dances. 

He has a snake tied on his waist.

He burned the three forts of the Asuras with his bow and arrow.

He stays in Thiruneythanam with his beloved wife Uma.



857. In his jata he wears garlands of kondrai, tulsi, 

vanni, umattam and kuvilam mixed together.

Dark-eyed Parvathi is part of him.

He is the pure lord of Thiruneythanam.



858. He wears a fragrant kondrai garland in his jata

and he rides on a swift bull surrounded by many Bhudams.

Many devotees sing and dance around him.

He listens and gives his grace with Uma.

He is the lord of Thiruneythanam.



859. A snake is tied on his waist

and he wears the skin of a tiger.

He fought the three Asuras and burned their fort.

He has an army of Bhudams.

He carries a trident and a deer.

He takes away the bad karma of his devotees,

the lord of Thiruneythanam.



860. He has a long jata and is the lord of the gods.

He drank poison making his throat dark

and wears the skin of an elephant he killed.

He burned the three Rakshasa forts with his bow.

He took me as his slave and I will no trouble in my life.

Giving his grace, he stays with his wife in Thiruneythanam.



861. He does not hesitate to give grace to his devotees.

In his jata he wears a kondrai garland, the shining moon,

Ganga and a snake. He burned the three forts of his enemies.

He is never apart from his wife, the lord of Thiruneythanam.



862. The crescent moon shines on his jata,

he burned the three forts of the Rakshasas with one arrow,

and the gods in the sky saw it. 

When Ganga angrily descended from the sky,

he stood and took the burden of the flow

He is the god of Thiruneythanam.

---------------


Padiham 90. Thiruvethikkudi

 
863. In one hand he holds a snake.

He burned the forts of the Rakshasas.

He drank poison from the milky ocean.

He has a long jata and is the god of the gods in the sky.

He stays in Thiruvethikkudi where nilam flowers are fragrant.

We worship him, the lord who is nectar.



864. He carries a deer and an axe in his hand.

He wears sacred ashes and begs carrying a skull.

He stays in Thiruvethikkudi where the valai fish jump.

He our lord and our sweet nectar. We worship him.



865. He, the ancient one, a sage, without karma,

destroyed the forts of the three Rakshasas, his enemies.

He is precious gold, a fragrant flower,

the god of Thiruvethikkudi, our dear lord.

We will go there, worship him and be happy.



866. He rules his devotees and takes away

the births of those who do not forget him.

He gives moksha to the devotees who serve him

in Thiruvethikkudi where kondrai flowers spread fragrance.

We will be happy worshiping the lord, our highest god, our nectar.



867. He rides a bull. Who knows his character?

The crescent moon shines in his jata where Ganga flows.

In Thiruvethikkudi where bees drink nectar and fly around

we will worship happily the god who carries an axe and rides a bull.



868. The gods in the sky praise the lord with music

joining the scholars who know literature and numbers.

We will go to Thiruvethikkudi and worship the god

who is like nectar and cannot be approached by anyone.

He takes away the bad karma of his devotees



869. The great god rides a bull. We do not know who he is.

Joyful, he keeps Uma as half of him and Ganga flows in his jata.

He is our dear god and our nectar in Thiruvethikkudi

surrounded with paddy fields.

We will go and worship him and be happy. 



870. He carries an axe and wanders with the skull of Brahma.

He is the god of the whole world,

the lord of Thiruvethikkudi where groves flourish.

We will worship him who is nectar with devotees and be happy.



871. His throat is dark and he recites the Vedas.

He wears lovely sacred ashes that his devotees also wear

and carries a sharp axe. In Thiruvethikkudi

beautiful lotus flowers spread their fragrance.

We will be happy worshiping him who is our nectar.



872. He pushed the heads of Ravana into the earth. 

His grace is unfailing. He has an army of Bhudams.

He is the lord of the gods and stays in Thiruvethikkudi.

We will be happy worshiping him who is our nectar.

--------------


Padiham 91. Thiruvaiyaru

 
873. My bad karma from my last birth made me sick in this birth. 

The lord of Thiruvaiyaru gave his grace and removed my sickness,

taking me as his slave and making me his devotee.

This was all because of the compassion he showed.



874. He gave his grace and took away

the sickness that came because of my bad karma.

O devotees of the god of Thiruvaiyaru,

he gave me his grace and took me as his slave

only because of his compassion.



875. The karma of my old birth gave me sickness.

The god of Thiruvaiyaru thought of me, gave his grace,

and took away my affliction.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru,

he gave me his grace and took me as his slave

only because of his compassion.



876. My bad karma made me sick,

pushing me into an ocean of sorrow.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru,

he gave me his grace and took me as his slave

only because of his compassion.



877. The lord gave his grace to take away

the sickness caused by my bad karma.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru, he took me under his feet

only because of his compassion.



878. The lord removed the sickness

caused by my bad karma and gave his grace.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru,

he put me beneath his golden feet 

only because of his compassion.



879. My bad karma made me sick

and the lord of Thiruvaiyaru gave me his grace,

taking me under his feet.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru,

that was only because of his compassion.



880. He gave his grace and removed the sickness

that came to me because of my karma.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru,

he made me his devotee and put me beneath his feet

only because of his compassion.



881. My old karma made me sick,

and he gave his grace and removed my sickness.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru,

he made me his devotee to serve his feet

only because of his compassion.



882. His throat is dark and Ganga flows in his jata.

He pushed Ravana’s heads into the earth.

O devotees of Thiruvaiyaru, he made me his devotee

and kept me beneath his golden feet

only because of his compassion.

------------


Padiham 92. Thiruvaiyaru

 
883, The feet of the lord of Thiruvaiyaru

are sweet honey for those who think of him.

They pour grace and give moksha,

taking away their old karma.

In his jata is a snake and the crescent moon.



884. The feet of the lord of Thiruvaiyaru

take away my next seven births.

They entered my heart.

They kicked Yama for Markandeya.

They give grace to those who praise him

who destroyed the sacrifice of Daksha

and gave the six Upanishads.



885. The feet of the lord of Thiruvaiyaru

shine like diamonds, gold and lightning.

They are in Kailasa and give his grace

to devotees who worship him.



886. The feet of the lord of Thiruvaiyaru

gave wisdom to the devotees suffering from their karma,

acting as if they were blind

and wanted to get the wealth of the world.

You saved them from the hell they would have fallen into

and brought them out. 



887. The feet of the lord of Thiruvaiyaru

do not know birth or death.

They are medicine for any sickness of his devotees

and save them from falling into hell.

They are nectar for those who melt for the god.



888. The feet of the lord of Thiruvaiyaru

are a boat for devotees to cross the ocean of sorrow

and bring them to the shore of happiness.

They shine like gold and give grace to his devotees

who never lie and worship him.



889. Thiruvaiyaru is the place where devotees

plunge into the Kaveri river, bathe, and worship the god lovingly.

There, the lord gives them food and wealth

as the gods in the sky surround them.



890. In Thiruvaiyaru devotees 

worship the god with devotion,

throwing fragrant flowers at his feet.

They will attain moksha.



891. In the burning ground owls and parantais make noise.

Peys join together and dance to the music of the drums.

A small fox calls out, sounding like a note held on a flute.

The divine feet of the god of Thiruvaiyaru dance there

as the world moves.



892. In Thiruvaiyaru devotees worship the god,

bowing to him and sprinkling flowers on his feet.

He is worshiped with flower buds

and the lord blesses them.



893. In Thiruvaiyaru devotees worship

the feet of the god sprinkling flowers on his feet

and accepts all the flowers I sprinkle on him.



894. In Thiruvaiyaru the feet of the lord

are like fresh lotus flowers. They are a help

to the devotees who cry out his praise.

There Shiva abides with ankleted Parvathi.



895. In Thiruvaiyaru the lord’s feet aid those

who have no one to help them.

Learned people praise them

and they make those who love them shine.

They give moksha to those

who renounce the desires of the world.



896. In Thiruvaiyaru the feet of the lord

are above the sky. They take away the births

of devotees and give the light of wisdom to good people.

When Shiva skinned the elephant, Parvathi was frightened.



897. In Thiruvaiyaru the feet of the lord

loved by Parvathi whose breasts are bound with a band

give power to the gods.

They chase away Yama’s messengers

and are a refuge for the suffering.



898. The feet of the lord in Thiruvaiyaru

are like gold, diamonds and precious jewels.

Their grace gives moksha to his worshipers.



899. The feet of the lord in Thiruvaiyaru

are wisdom and the meaning of wisdom,

the Vedas and the sacrifices,

the sky, earth, sun and the moon,

and the beginning and end of everything.



900. The lotus feet of the lord in Thiruvaiyaru

are worshiped by bangled Parvathi 

whose hair swarms with bees

and whose breasts are golden.



901. The feet of the lord in Thiruvaiyaru

help his devotees following them like their shadow,

taking away their birth and all their bad karma.

They shine like fire.



902. The toe of the lord in Thiruvaiyaru

pushed Ravana’s heads into the earth.

The lord wandered the earth

carrying Brahma’s skull and begging.

His ankleted and indestructible feet

kicked Yama for Markandeya.

-------------


Padiham 93. Thirukkandiyur Virattam

 
903. All the gods of the sky brought flowers

and worshiped Shiva. Brahma and Vishnu

could not know his power. As a hunter

the ancient lord chased a boar with his bow and arrow.

The gods of the sky, the Asuras, and the people of the earth

worship that god of Thirukkandiyur.



904. He wears in his jata the crescent moon,

the shining snake and the water of Ganga.

He wanders colored like fire

and holds a deer in his hand.

The god of Thirukkandyur

is the faultless lord of the Vedas.



905. His throat is dark and he carries Brahma’s skull.

Everyone knows this.

He is the lord of Thirukkandiyur

where devotees and the gods in the sky worship him.



906. He has everything

and there is nothing he cannot do.

Uma is half of his body.

He takes away all our bad karma.

He is the lord of Thirukkandiyur

and there is no devotee and no god

who does not know him.



907. He skinned the elephant

and wears sacred ashes that are like coral.

Thirumal carried a mountain as an umbrella

but even he cannot know Shiva.

He is the faultless lord of Thirukkandiyur

of the Vedas and is praised by the gods.



908. He skinned the elephant king

and ties the skin on his waist.

His calling is to protect this world

surrounded by the ocean.

He is the lord of Thirukkandiyur

and carries an axe and is praised by the gods.



909. He killed Yama for Markandeya,

he recites the Vedas, he burned Kama with his third eye,

he burned the forts of the Rakshasas.

He is the lord of Thirukkandiyur

and is praised by the gods.



910. In his jata is Ganga, the crescent moon,

a snake and a garland. He has a snake around his waist.

He, the lord of Thirukkandiyur, dances to drums

and is praised by the gods.



911. He destroys the bad karma and sickness of his devotees.

If bad karma comes to them he destroys it.

He is the lord of Thirukkandiyur

who recited all six angams of the Vedas.

That lord gave his grace to me, his devotee.



912. He drank the poison that came from the milky ocean

when the gods used Vasuki as the churning cord 

and the mountain as the churning stick.

He is the lord of Thirukkandiyur

who gave me his grace and made me his slave.

---------------


Padiham 94. Thiruppathirippuliyur

 
913. The lord is my father and mother

and he created all three worlds.

He is in my heart and is the friend of the gods.

The lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur

is my companion whom I cannot see.



914. O heart, I think only of him as my refuge.

Even when this world is overrun by the ocean

at the end of the eon, I will still worship the feet

of the lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur,

my refuge, who wears the crescent moon in his jata

and is the lord of Uma.



915. He rides a bull and stays lovingly in my heart.

No bad karma will come to us

and we will not be afraid of Yama.

He is lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur

a place as lovely as the lotus of Brahma.

I can do anything because I am his devotee.



916. He left his wife Uma and the world,

and came to Thiruppathirippuliyur and stayed there.

The whole world will bow to his feet and worship him.

He is the good god of Thiruppathirippuliyur

and his lotus feet are in my heart.



917. O heart, you should have no pride.

You should be one with the god

and say only, “Sivaya Namah.”

If you do not do that, can you get the grace

of the god of Thiruppathirippuliyur

who wears the shining crescent moon?

You are too innocent!



918. Even when I was in the womb,

I thought always of you and recited your name.

I wear your sacred ashes and say, “Sivaya Namah.”

Give me the grace to reach you,

O lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur.



919. When the gods came and implored you,

you drank the poison.

You burned the three forts of the strong Rakshasas

and have three eyes.

O lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur where music spreads,

I have you in my heart.



920. Even if I am born as a worm, O virtuous one,

I will keep you in my heart. Give me that boon.

You give your grace to all who worship you,

O god of Thiruppathirippuliyur with a red body

and Ganga in your jata.



921. O heart, even if all the world is covered

by the flooding ocean and if all the eight directions

become dark and the sun and moon fall from the sky,

we will not be afraid because we have the grace

of the feet of the lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur.



922. When I was a Jain and did not know what to do,

I took refuge in the feet of the lord who gives moksha.

O lord of Thiruppathirippuliyur

who pushed Ravana’s heads into the earth,

give me your grace so I will not be born again.

------------


Padiham 95. Thiruvizimizalai

 
923. You wear the crescent moon in your jata

where it shines as if it were in the sky,

and you wear a lovely kondrai garland

dripping with nectar.

You are the husband of Uma with doe eyes.

O lord of Thiruvizimizalai,

even if I forget you, take me as your devotee.



924. You are the beginning and end of the world.

You give love and moksha to all.

You ride a bull and are the lord of Thiruvizimizalai

where Brahmins perform sacrifices.

Even if I forget you, when Yama comes for me

take me as your devotee and protect me.



925. You are water, fire, wind, sky and earth.

You hold a lovely deer in your hand

and you are beauty in art.

You stay in Thiruvizimizalai giving your grace to all.

When my hands and legs no longer work,

even if I forget you, take me as your devotee and protect me.



926. You destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice

and have Kali as your wife.

You are the god of Thiruvizimizalai

where many Brahmins live.

Do not forget me at the end of my life

even if I forget the five syllables, “Namah Sivaya.”



927. You have a snake tied on your waist and carry a trident.

Brahmins praise you with devotion in Thiruvizimizalai.

You should not forget me even when my fate is to die

but take me as your devotee and protect me.



928. You are adorned with sacred beads

and carry the skull of Brahma.

O lord of Thiruvizimizalai, when I am hungry

or sick or suffering from my five senses,

even if I forget you

take me as your devotee and protect me.



929. You cut off the head of Brahma,

the creator of the world,

and you ride on a white bull.

You are the god of Thiruvizimizalai.

When I see Yama coming with his rope to take me,

even if I forget you

take me as your devotee and protect me.



930. The swirling Ganga and the crescent moon

are in your jata and you dance.

You have a snake tied around your waist.

You burned Kama with your third eye.

You are the god of Thiruvizimizalai.

Even if I forget you in this birth,

take me as your devotee and protect me.



931. In your jata is the crescent moon

and you recite the Vedas and wear sacred ashes.

You are the god of Thiruvizimizalai.

When the messengers of Yama come to take me,

even if I forget you,

take me as your devotee and protect me.



932. When Ravana became angry

and dug up Kailasa mountain and carried it,

you crushed his heads into the earth with your toe.

You destroyed Yama.

You wear a kondrai garland

and are the god of Thiruvizimizalai.

When I die, even if I forget you,

take me as your devotee and protect me.

------------


Padiham 96. Thiruchathimutram

 
933. You are the god of Thiruchathimutram,

You carry fire on your hand,

You are a tender shoot.

Come and put your lotus feet on me,

before Yama comes and takes my life away.

If you do not do that you will be blamed forever. 



934. You are the god of Thiruchathimutram, 

you are a tender shoot. 

You burned Kama with your forehead eye.

You kicked Yama to save Markandeya.

You take away the births of those who worship you.



935. You are the god of Thiruchathimutram,

you are a tender shoot.

The five senses of my body destroy me.

Please help me, remove the bad thoughts in my mind

and be my refuge. You are in the hearts of the gods,

and you are wisdom.



936. I fall into the suffering of this world.

Help me so I will not suffer being here,

come and give me your grace.

You are the husband of Uma

whose eyebrows are like bows.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram

you are a tender shoot.



937. From the time I was in my mother’s womb,

I thought only of you. When I came into the world,

even when I played I thought only of you.

Take me away from the desires of this world.

If you do not, I will be destroyed, O husband of Uma.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram

you are a tender shoot.



938. O god who give moksha,

before Yama comes and takes me,

make me come to you and worship your feet.

If you ignore me and do not give me your grace in this birth,

no one can say what will happen in my next birth.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram,

you are a tender shoot.



939. You shot your arrow and destroyed

the three forts of the Rakshasas.

Take away my desire for this world

and give me your grace.

You were very happy when Uma,

the daughter of Himalaya, worshiped you.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram

you are a tender shoot.



940. You destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice,

giving your grace to the gods in the sky,

and you conquered Daksha.

O god with a dark throat, I praise you.

Give me your grace and take away all my suffering.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram

you are a tender shoot.



941. I left the Jain religion and took refuge with you. 

I do not want any of the desires of this world.

You like to stay in Thillai

and are the lord of the north.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram

you are a tender shoot.



942. When the Rakshasa dug up Kailasa

and carried it, you pushed his heads

into the earth with one toe and then saved him

and gave him your grace.

You took away my desire and cured my sickness.

You are the god of Thiruchathimutram

you are a tender shoot.

-----------


Padiham 97. Thirunallur

 
943. He wanders about carrying a skull

and begs for food at each house—

how is it that he attracts bangled women?

He has a snake tied on his waist.

He dances and stays in Thirunallur.



944. The lord sings and dances

wandering about carrying a skull

and begging for food at all houses in Thirunallur.

There is a reason he comes like this—

the women want to see him.



945. O lovely-waisted women,

he came as a beggar and entered your street.

Is he the lord who dances?

He stays on Kailasa in the north

and in Thirunallur in the south.



946. He is a shining light and has the color of coral,

wears ashes like pearls

and has a throat darkened by poison.

He, our dear one, stays in Thirunallur.

Once in sleep I saw him in a dream and worshiped him,

and from then on he has never left my heart.

He stays there at all times.



947. He wears the white crescent moon

and the gods in the sky worship him.

He stays always in Thirunallur

where there is music and dance.

He burned the three forts of the Rakshasas.



948. Devotees can go to Thirunallur to see Shiva,

but they wander through the whole world

wanting to see him as if they had dropped

something precious in a river and searched for it in a pond. 



949. In Thirunallur where ponds bloom with fresh lotuses

Shiva came to Amarnitinayanar one day,

gave him his loincloth, asked him to wash it

and told him he would come to pick it up.

In the wind the cloth flew, caught on a thorn and was torn.

The god became angry and refused to take anything he offered

for the cloth. Seeing the Nayanar’s devotion the lord forgave him

and took him and his wife to heaven.



950. His jata is adorned with the shining crescent moon

and he wears a kondrai flower garland.

He dances to the music in Thirunallur

and gives me his grace, taking away my bad karma.



951. In Thirunallur, Brahmins worship him,

reciting the Vedas and his devotees sing his praise.

The women there want to see him in their dreams

and ask him to come and give his grace.



952. Brahmins reciting the Vedas live in Thirunallur 

filled with palatial homes and blooming lotuses,

kazunir, neytal, kongam, shenbagam, kondrai and vanni flowers.

Let us worship the lord who has beautiful Uma as half his body.



953. The cruel Rakshasa king of Lanka thought he could dig up

the abode of Shiva. The ankleted lord of Nallur

pushed his shoulders and crowns strong as stones

into the earth. He rules us.




Padiham 98. Thiruvaiyaru

 
954. The crescent moon shines in his jata

and he is adorned with kondrai and nandiyaavattam flowers.

He is my friend and his anklets are ornamented

with jewels and they sing. 

How can I say he is not true to me?



955. His divine feet are adorned with a padagam.
They dance in the evening in the sunlight.

They walked behind the boar hunting it.

They give grace to his devotees.

-------------


Padiham 99. Thirukkacciyekampam

 
956. You taught me everything.

When I was with the Jains,

you showed me the right path and brought me out.

You took my sickness away.

If I do something wrong, you can hit me and correct me.

You may get angry at me if I make mistakes,

O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



957. Why did you let me go with the Jains

who are not intelligent?

Your body shines like coral,

O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



958. You became a hunter and fought with Arjuna,

and then you gave him your grace.

You burned the three forts of the Rakshasas.

You do not give your grace to those

who do not worship your feet,

O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



959. You wear the shining crescent moon in your jata

and a beautiful garland on your chest.

When Vishnu brought you a garland,

and one of the flowers in it was lost,

he took one of his eyes to replace it,

O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



960. No one has the words to describe you

and no one can understand you in their thought.

People can only fold their hands and worship you.

Brahma, Vishnu, the suns, the Vasus, the Rudras

worship you without knowing who you are,

O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



961. From the time I was in my mother’s womb

my heart has wanted to see you,

but even though I tried, I could not.

You are the lord of Thiruvarur, Thiruvalavay

and Thiruvotriyur. I have no refuge.

Give me your grace, O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



962. Vishnu, Brahma, Indra, the sun, the moon

and the other gods wait to see you before your door.

Even the sages wait for you and suffer.

Do you want to give them your grace? Tell me,

O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



963. A snake is tied around your waist

and your color is red. Your devotees,

folding their hands, wearing ashes

and rolling on the ground ask you for refuge.

Give me your grace, O lord of Thirukkacciyekampam.



964. You accepted me before and it is not right

if you say you will not accept me now.

This world is evidence that you accepted me.

Now when I am alone, you give me up to the desires

of the five senses, but remember that before

you saved me from them.



965. The Apsaras come to your palace

and stay there to see you in a crowd.

The gods in the sky come and wait

to know you what do you want them to do.

Vishnu and Brahma also come and stay there.

How can we, your devotees come

and see you in your place and worship you?

--------------


Padiham 100. Thiruvinnambar

 
966. Your feet are beautiful like lotuses.

Uma, the daughter of Himalaya, caresses them.

If we worship your feet, they will help us to understand

the meaning of the Vedas.

When your devotees worship your feet

they give your grace and take away their troubles.



967. Your feet are divine!

They danced with Kali to take away her anger.

They kicked Yama when he came

to take the life of Markandeya and saved him.

All the gods cannot reach them.



968. Your divine feet are sprinkled with flowers

by Uma who has golden breasts.

They are worshiped by the gods in the sky.

Even the gods in the sky do not know their power.

They dance with your Ganas.



969. The feet of the lord

give grace and give all the things

the six religions will give.

They are worshiped by the gods

and there is nothing greater than them.

Even if this world and the world of the gods

are destroyed, they will remain.



970. When Shiva destroyed and burned 

the three fort of the Raksasas

his divine feet did not burn. 

They stayed on his chariot, whose horses are the Vedas.

When the god took the form of a hunter, 

his feet walked liked any hunter in a forest.

And when he is a beggar, they go to all houses and beg.



971. As a boar, Vishnu dug up the earth

to see the divine feet of Shiva.

They cannot be destroyed in all eons.

They dance for the songs of the Vedas

and are adorned with anklets.

Such are the divine feet of Shiva.



972. All praise the feet of the god.

They consoled the anger of Muyalagan.

They teach the Upanishads to all his devotees.

They give grace to his those who love him

and take them to moksha.



973. The divine ankleted feet of the Svayambhu

who recited all the four Vedas remove the sins of his devotees.

They love the lotus breasts of Uma his wife

and are happy with her.



974. The divine feet of the god are worshiped

by Brahma, Vishnu, Indra, the moon

and all the other gods in the sky.

They praise him saying, “Jaya, Jaya!”

They give happiness on the earth and moksha 

to all the people of earth and to the gods in the sky.



975. The divine feet of the god destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice.

They cannot be described and are brighter than gold.

They pushed the ten heads of Ravana into the earth 

and then gave grace to him when he played the veena

and worshiped the lord with the Vedas.

------------


Padiham 101. Thiruvarur

 
976. Devotees praise the ankleted god.

The Jains worship him even though they speak against him.

Devotees shed tears as they worship him

but we do not have their good fortune.



977. The lord took the form of a hunter

and took away Arjuna’s strength.

I followed the teaching of the Jains and stayed with them.

I escaped from them, came to you and became your devotee.



978. He destroyed the three forts of the Rakshasas.

Devotees praise the lord of Thiruvarur

whom the Jains do not worship.

Will I receive the lord’s grace and worship him?



979. Can I have the blessing of the Jains?

Even though they do not bathe and wander unclothed

and talk against the lord of Thiruvarur, they have his grace.

Can I have the good fortune of having his grace also?



980. The Jains do not speak when they eat

yet they praise god. Can I, his devotee,

receive the good fortune of worshiping the lord of Thiruvarur

who destroyed the three forts.



981. The Jains are fat, do not wear clothes,

do not speak and wander around.

Can I have the grace of the lord of Thiruvarur

that his devotees receive?



982. Can I receive the lord’s grace

like the Jains who pluck their hair

and have their own worship?

Can I have the grace of the lord of Thiruvarur

who burned the three forts?

Can I have the good fortune of his devotees?



983. The Jains pluck their hair, fast

and worship in their own way.

Can I have the same good fortune

as the devotees of the lord of Kailasa

who stays in Thiruvarur?



984. The Jains beg for food and eat.

Can I have the good fortune

they receive from their worship?

Can I have the grace that

the lord of Thiruvarur gives his devotees?



985. I left the Jains and their wrong teaching

and came to worship the lord of Thiruvaru.

He destroyed the strength of Ravana

and pushed him into the earth with his toe.

Can I receive his grace like the devotees

who worship him?

----------------


Padiham 102. Thiruvarur


986. O devotees, you speak wrongly,

eat and care for your bodies.

Do you think that is all you need to do?

Wear ashes and do service,

worshiping the god of Thiruvarur

surrounded by ponds blooming with flowers.



987. The god of Thiruvarur is worshiped lovingly

on Pankuni Uttaram day by his devotees.

The whole world knows that I, Nambi Nanthi,

placed flowers on his feet and lighted up his temple.



988. People adorn the god with jewels

and sprinkle flowers

but in Thiruvarur they praise him

singing Tamil songs.



989. A snake is tied around his waist

and the crescent moon shines in his jata.

All the sages worship him.

Devotees wear ashes and worship his feet.

I, Nambi Nanthi, praise the lord of Thiruvarur.



990. He stays in Thiruvarur surrounded by groves.

He burned Kama. 

He gave his grace to Chandisan who cut the feet of his father. 

How do I know what he would like to do?



991. People go playing musical instruments

to worship the lord of Thiruvarur.

If Nambi Nanthi is not there,

Thiruvarur will be dark.



992. O devotees, worship the god in the morning

with incense and blow conches.

The feet of the lord that pushed Ravana into the earth

gave me their grace and took me as their slave.

---------------


Padiham 103. Thirunakaikkaronam

 
993. You have Ganga in your long jata

and the beautiful daughter of Himalaya is a part of you.

You are the god of Thirunakaikkaronam

surrounded by fragrant groves.

Why do you ride on a thunder-voiced white bull

when there are strong elephants and horses?

Tell me, O lord.



994. You have an eye in your forehead

and you are the god of Thirunakaikkaronam

filled with scholars.

Your arms embrace Parvathi whose eyes are like spears.

Your hands bent the bow and destroyed

the three forts of the Rakshasas.

What service can I do for you?



995. You shot your arrows and destroyed Daksha’s sacrifice.

You are the god of Thirunakaikkaronam who burned Kama.

O Shankara, give me your grace so I may recite

the five syllables, “Namah Sivaya.”



996. The evil Jains pluck their hair out and live.

You protected me and kept me from joining them.

You are the god of Thirunakaikkaronam surrounded by water.

O god in the sky, give me your grace

so generation after generation we will follow you.



997. The women of Thirunakaikkaronam

surrounded by fragrant groves

have sweet words, white teeth, dark eyes and coral mouths.

They dance and sing, praising you.

There, devotees think of you always.

Give your grace so they will not be separated from you.



998. You are the highest shining lord.

You skinned the elephant with a trunk like a palm tree.

You, the god of Thirunakaikkaronam,

have an eye in your forehead.

You removed my confusion when I joined the lowlife Jains.



999. O lord of Thirunakaikkaronam surrounded by waves.

I have a request to make. Hear me.

You hide Ganga in your jata.

If Uma finds out, it will be a problem for you.



1000. O lord you are the god of Thirunakaikkaronam

surrounded by the ocean filled with ships.

I have something to tell you, listen.

You hide Ganga in your jata,

and if Uma knows how you are cheating her,

it is bad for you. Do you understand?

------



This file was last updated on 9 Jan 2024. 

Feel free to send the corrections to the webmaster (pmadurai AT gmail.com) 





