





















குருபாத தாசர் அருளிய குமரேச சதகம், கௌசல்யா ஹார்ட் அவர்களின் ஆங்கில மொழிபெயர்ப்பு, kumarEsa catakam of kurupAta tAcar - English translation by Kausalya Hart  (in unicode format)










குருபாத தாசர் அருளிய 

குமரேச சதகம் - ஆங்கில மொழிபெயர்ப்பு

கௌசல்யா ஹார்ட்  
 

kumarEsa catakam of kurupAta tAcar 

 English translation by Kausalya Hart

In unicode/utf-8 format




 Acknowledgements: 

Our Sincere thanks go to Dr. Mrs. Kausalya Hart and Prof. George Hart 

for providing a soft copy of this work for inclusion as part of Project Madurai collections.

Preparation of HTML and PDF versions: Dr. K. Kalyanasundaram, Lausanne, Switzerland.




 © Project Madurai, 1998-2022.

Project Madurai is an open, voluntary, worldwide initiative devoted to preparation

of electronic texts of tamil literary works and to distribute them free on the Internet.

Details of Project Madurai are available at the website

https://www.projectmadurai.org/

You are welcome to freely distribute this file, provided this header page is kept intact.




kumarEsa catakam of kurupAta tAcar 

 English translation by Kausalya Hart
 



Note: The Tamil source version with a commentary in Tamil has been published earlier under 
 Project Madurai with release #PM0444 
:

 https://www.projectmadurai.org/pm_etexts/utf8/pmuni0444.html (opens up in a new webpage)

https://www.projectmadurai.org/pm_etexts/pdf/pm0444.pdf




 kappu - avai adakkam

Praising the gods and asking for their grace.



I worship the five-armed god Ganesa 

dwelling on Kambakkumbam.

so that he will give his grace 

to enable me to recite sweet 

beautiful poems on the god Kumaresan.

May he and the god Saravana protect me. 



Asking the forbearance of the assembly.



I ask the members of the assembly 

to forgive me for the faults I have made in these poems. 

My efforts are like

dew that falls thinking that it matches rain,

a small girl building a sand house 

thinking it will be permanent

or a firefly thinking its light 

is as bright as the moon.



I am like a crazy person

who speaks for a long time

in front of fine scholars,

I am like a turkey thinking

it can dance like a lovely peacock,

a small canal in the village

thinking its flow can match the sweet flooding the Kaveri,

a woman adorning herself with jewelry of conch instead of pearls,

or a small pond filled with water before the ocean. 



I would recite these poems before poets

who recite poems as fast as lightning.

I will happily recite this Kumaresa Sadagam 

on the lord Kumaresan who stays in Pullaivaal village.

Forgive me and give me your grace.

------


 Main Book.




The divine play of Murugan



1. You were born with six heads to protect the people of the earth, 

you played in the Saravana pond,

told the meaning of Om to lord Shiva,

and imprisoned Brahma because he did not know the meaning of Om. 



2. The famed, bright gods Hari and Haran 

and all the other gods could not kill the Asura Surapadma

who imprisoned all the gods,

but you split open his body with your spear

and released the gods from prison. 



3. Before your dear devotees on this earth

even ask for help, you go and help them at once. 

You are a true companion for them every day.

Are there any other gods equal to you? 



4. You wear on your beautiful chest 

the fragrant Kadamba garland 

where bees drink sweet honey

and you are the beloved husband of Valli. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

-----------


2. Qualities of the Brahmins 



Brahmins continually recite Gayathiri prayer, 

they know the greatness of Sruthi,

they are the cause of spreading

the faultless Agamas and Puranas 

and they know the wonderful sacrifices and other things.



Since they recite these things and perform excellent sacrifices, 

they put up with all evil deeds and remain calm as the lotus.

They perform fire sacrifices 

and worship using statues of copper, 

and create the gods in the statues of ancestors.



They do not turn from the path of justice. 

Because of them abundant rain falls

and nourishes the fields, 

the kings rule their country with justice 

and great sages do excellent tapas.



They are the scholars of the Vedas

and are human gods on this earth.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------ 


3. A King.



A king should protect his citizens.

He should deliberate with his ministers,

know what others are thinking,

and should be truthful to his word.

Every day he should give charity,

he should respect all according to their ability,

be patient and employ strategy that never fails.



Before he appoints royal officers 

and captains of the army, 

he should know their abilities.

He should think all lives are his life,

be compassionate to others

and prevent crime in his country.



He should have good friends, 

a good character, education, knowledge, 

he should know the right time to act, 

never failing in his efforts,

and he should know the bad and good of life. 



These are the faultless ways of a king 

who rules with justice. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

----------


4. The qualities of merchants. 



Merchants negotiate prices with buyers,

then add some to the price of their goods,

speaking to their customers

and convincing them they are getting a good price

so that they will not lose money when they sell their merchandise.



If a someone who lies wishes to pawn gold,

a merchant will not give him a loan. 

If a trustworthy person sends someone asking for loan, 

a merchant will give the loan, trusting them



When they write account for income and expense, 

they will not make even a tiny mistake.

They will not incur unnecessary expenses.

If it is important, they will spend a lot of money.

This is the way the merchants live on the earth.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

----------


5. Farmers .



Because of the generous work of farmers,

these things happen on the earth:



In all the temples, good worship is performed.

Every day rain falls.

All the sages are able to do their divine tapas.



The world become fertile and shows its richness

sceptered kings follow the rules of Manu,

dispensing justice



Everyone is happy and able to survive

because of the work that farmers do. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

---------


6. Fathers.
 



The first father of a child is the one

who did tapas to get a child, raised him,

and taught him skills 

and the good ways of life. 



The king who takes away troubles in his country

and rules is a father.

When someone is in trouble,

he who comes to help saying, 

“Do not be afraid” is a father. 

Whoever loves someone is a father to him.



A good father marries a wife 

who cooks excellent food and takes care of the family.

One should think of all these people

as fathers every day in the world—

that is the right thing to do.



You are the younger son of Shiva 

decorated with crescent moon, a snake and beautiful flowers,

and you are the guru of your father.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 7. Staying together 
 



Lakshmi stays with a truthful person,

and where Lakhsmi is, fortune will always abide. 

With Lakshmi the beauty of Vishnu stays,

and where beauty stays, compassion abides.



Fame and dharma stay 

with compassionate and devotional people 

and they will conquer their enemies.



The people have a good life in places

where men with fame and strength live.


O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 8. Who are the Gods?
 



For the poor, those who give food are gods, 

for good students their fine guru is a god, 

and for those who are afraid of danger, 

strong people who help them are gods.



For chaste women who love their husbands, 

their husbands are gods.

For the people of the world the king

who protects their families is a god. 



Parents are gods for children whom they educate,

for people of high caste, relatives are gods,

and for those who love Shiva, devotees of Shiva are gods.



You, compassionate, killed Surapadma

and gave your grace to the gods in the sky, 

and for the gods you are god.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 9. Things people think of 
 



The wise people think only of how to obtain moksha,

doing dharma every day. 

Kings think of good ways of ruling their countries.



Men filled with lust think only of women,

fearless thieves think only of stealing day and night

and rich merchants think only of gain in their business. 



Charitable farmers think only of 

growing paddy to feed people. 

Those who want to learn think only of eduction.

Dasis only think of those who give them much money.



King Maanabaran thinks only of his fame. 

O Muruga, I always think of you only.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 10. People without good qualities.
 



Dasis do not tell the truth, 

thieves do not have relatives or any relationships,

kings do not have thankfulness, 

poor people cannot be friends of dasis 

and misers can never feel satisfied however much they get. 



People filled with desire do not have shame,

a sage does not have egoism, 

a rude person does not have affection, 

Someone with too much desire does not think of relatives,

and those who do not have good qualities are not beautiful.



A drum is not played during a puja,

if someone understands everything he does not find anyone a stranger,

a stupid person does not understand the right time for anything

and the pulaiyar do not have any compassion for others.



O handsome lord married to Deyvanai,

O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

 
------------


 11. The rules of life for these people
 



A good king rules his kingdom

without making improper laws. 

A good minister knows everything that happens in the country 

and advises the king.



A person who does not care about his body 

and helps his country in war is a hero. 

A good poet knows the rules of literature and grammar,

and tells correct meanings to all. 



A wise doctor knows 

the remedies to cure patients 

and calmly help them.



A true sage does not 

have egoism in his mind

or the desires given by the five senses.



You are the beloved son of Parvathi, 

the beautiful sister of Vishnu

and you carry a sharp spear!



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 12. Fraud
 



Things and evil people that one should control and be careful of:



a fire that burns high,

people who talk stupidly,

a field where there are elephants,



a cruel wife, 

thieves stealing growing crops,

enemies without any fear,

unjust people, 

angry women who shout, 



a servant who listens to others,

wanting to love other women,

people who do not listen to good advice,

excessive anger,



a sickness that hurts the body, 

the assembly that ignores a person,

a fight that hurts,

terrible poison—

one should be careful about all these things.



O lord, you are a very handsome god, 

and you married Deyvanai 

and the gypsy Valli sweet to everyone’s eyes.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 13. For good people it is easy to do these things
 



For those who like to give wealth is not important.

For a hero who does not worry about his life,

fighting with his enemies is easy. 



Famous people do not think 

receiving help from mean people is worthwhile. 

For those think only of moksha

enjoyment with women is not important. 



A sage who does not have any desire

thinks a heroic king is not great.

For those who have the grace of goddess Saraswathi,

good Tamil poems are easy to compose.



O, Velaa, you married Deyvanai and Valli

who wears diamonds on her bound breasts.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 14. Things that give other things
 



The sun removes darkness in the day 

and the moon removes darkness in the night.

Clouds give rain and nourish the world.

Women make their husbands famous.

Kings protect the people of their country.

A good horse runs fast.



Strength removes enmity,

good character shows ones goodness,

good music has good sruthi,

a good village is famous because good people live there,

food gives health to the body,

sweet words show one has grace,



generous people become famous, 

knowledge gives a person tapas,
people like flowers for their fragrance,

someone’s face is bright because they smile.

books make a person intelligent,

and the Vedas give rules for sacrifices,

someone is truthful because he tells true things 

and a pond becomes full by water.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 15. All do not become good just by birth.
 



Even if a crow is born in a beautiful garden

can it become a cuckoo that sings sweetly?

Even if a kotti blooms in a rippling pond, 

will it become a beautiful lotus flower?



Even if a rabbit is born in a good forest

will it be a baby elephant?

Even if a stupid person is born in an intelligent family, 

will he become smart? 



Even if a snail is born in milky ocean 

will it become a sāla grāma?

Even though salt is born in the wide ocean

will it become good sugar?



O lord, you are the divine guru for the famous Agastya,

and you instructed him truly in proper Tamil. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 16. These are useful for all.
 



A cloud that pours rain,

a king who is generous, 

a village pond filled with water,

the shadow of a tree where the village Panchayat meets, 

the farmers who grow paddy,



a tree that grows and gives ripe fruits to all passersby, 

a pandal that compassionately serves water to people, 

a spring that flows like the Kāviri river, 



the moon and the sun that brighten the earth, 

the breeze that blows,

and wealth that intelligent and good persons have. 

These help many people.



O, Lord your red coral chest is adorned

with a beautiful kadappa flower garland swarming with bees.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 17. Even if someone has bad qualities, his goodness does not go away. 
 



Even if gold is put in fire and melts 

its brightness is not reduced.

Even if a stick of sandalwood become thin and slight

its fragrance will not go away.



Even if a beautiful white conch is burned in a raging fire

its whiteness will not be reduced.

Even if milk is boiled and become less, 

it will not lose its sweetness.



Even if a good diamond is ground on a touchstone,

it does not lose its brightness.

Even if a famous man dies,

his excellent qualities will not be forgotten.



You married the gypsy girl Valli and the divine Deyvanai, 

and embraced them with your strong arms.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 18. People who fall into hell: 
 



warriors who desert their kings in battle, 

those who forget the words of their gurus, 

murderers, 

those who treat their parents badly, 

those who wander about with many women,



those who would hurt those who give them food, 

a minister who takes the kingdom from his king,

those who disgrace temples, 

untrustworthy people,

people who blame sages,



those who speak in court supporting the wrong people,

those who are angry at devotees of Shiva and make them tremble, 

those who always tell lies, 

and those who steal the wealth of others. 

These people will fall in cruel hell. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 19. What is good health?
 



It is better to be with a women only 2 times a month. 

It is better to put oil on your hair and bathe two times a week 



If someone is old, it is better for him to be with a young girl

with beautiful hair. 

When someone is young,

he can eat yogurt, boiled milk, buttermilk, ghee and soft coconut

but when someone is thin and old,

he should be careful not to eat too much.

After eating, one can be with his wife.

All of these things give physical happiness.



You are the beloved of the gypsy Valli

who was born in a forest through tapas.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 20. Fate 
 



Even though the moon circles shining Meru mountain, 

its dark spot does not go away.

Even though Vishnu sleeps on Adisesha, 

his terrible enmity with Vanan does not go away.



The snake stays on the neck of Shiva, 

and even though it does not eat, it has stomach trouble.

For the sun that removes the night, Rahu is an enemy.



Even if someone stays with fine people who have no faults,

they will only get things according to their fate.

People have to live with their fate— they should not hate their life.



O Saravana,

you are worshiped by Vishnu 

and he praises you, saying, “O victorious one, jeya, jeya!”



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 21. These are not useful:
 



learning a skill without a guru, 

running a business without being wise,

the desires of a bad wife, 

a country without good citizens, 

an unjust king, 

a terrible war without elephants to fight,



a competent person who is not wealthy, 

good tapas performed by an impatient person,

a prayer without meditation,

a house without lights, 

a lazy body, 

a head without hair,



a fertile field without someone to take care of it,

food eaten when a person is not hungry, 

false speech,

a minister who does not think right, 

a hero who is a coward,

a friend who does not help,



a beautiful flower that has no fragrance, 

and an assembly without wise people.

What is the use of all these things 

even if they are in the world?



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 22. One should never have enmity with these people:
 



with the king, 

with sages,

with generous people, 

those who approach you as friends,

cruel murderers,



with heroic people live in your village,

with a talkative, gossiping person,

with many people,

with magicians, 

with a good medicine man,



with a good poet, 

with a guru,

with relatives, 

with rich men, 

and a minister, 

To make any of these your enemy is not good.



O Lord, You are a baby born in the sweet Saravana pond 

like a child born by the Ganges.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 23. These are devils:
 



someone who becomes angry when a person who gave a loan 

asks his money back,

someone who cannot sleep when he has become rich 

and is proud of his wealth,



someone who believes his enemies and gets into trouble,

someone who tells the truth to his dear wife,



someone who scolds faultless elders,

someone who desires many things and give trouble to others, 



and someone who goes to a mistress, 

when he has a beautiful wife at home. 

Aren’t all these devils?



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 24. The best things.
 



Among the trees, sandalwood, 

among rivers, the Ganges, 

among days for fasting, Monday, 

among beautiful places, Kashmir,

among pilgrimage sites, Chidambaram,



among the famous rishis, Vasishtar,

among cows, Kamadenu,

among sages, Narada,

among precious stones, the shining Padmaraagam,

among beautiful flowers, the lotus,



among chaste women, Arundadi, 
among strong things the swift wind,

among elephants, Iravata, 

among good books in Tamil, the Agasthiyam, 

among manthras, the Pranava, 

among oceans, the divine milky ocean

and among tall mountains, great Meru.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 25. Things that gives strength:
 



for brahmins, the Vedas, 

for kings, bravery,

for merchants, gain, 

for farmers, plowing,



for a minister the four expedients (conciliation, sowing dissension, bribery, war).

for the just person doing the right thing,

for the great sages, penance,

for women chastity,



for those who want to serve others, patience,

for scholars, education,

and for those who worship, love of .



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 26. Things that are not useful.
 



What is the use of a friend if he does not help when needed?

What is the use of flowers blooming in a forest?

What is the use if a thorny plant ripens?

What is the use of a dog that gives milk?

What is the use of rain pouring in the forest?



What is the use if of a pile of donkey excrement?

What is the use of a beautiful woman if she is not good?

What use is an assembly poet if he has not learned many books?

------------

What is the use if a strong sweet Bhudam protects gold?

What is the use if a bear’s hair grows long?

What is the use if one sees a picture of good clothes and ornaments,

and what is the use of people who live without helping others.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 28. Useless people:
 



someone who says how famous he is, 

someone who goes to war and hides, 

someone who does not listen to the advice of intelligent elders,

someone who gets bored being with his friends. 



someone who gossips about people who are not present,

someone who does not help his parents when they are in trouble,

someone who talks about his wife,



someone who has gold and money but still begs.

someone who gives false evidence,

someone who talks badly of others,

and someone who tells people about having sex with his wife.

All these are worthless.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

----------------




 29. These suffer because they do not see something:
 



a lotus flower that has not seen the sun,

crops that have not seen rain,

kumudam flowers that have not seen the moon,

a country without a king, 

a boat unable to see the shore,

a guest who has not heard sweet words from his host,



a calf that has not seen its mother,

a bee that cannot find a grove, 

friends who cannot find their friends,

a stupid person who has not seen the Chola country,



a peacock that has not seen a cloud,

a poor child that has not seen a good life,

a cuckoo bird that has not seen the summer,

an expense incurred when there is no income,



an assembly that has not seen gurus,

intelligent people who have not seen renunciants,

women who have not seen their husbands, 

and youths who have not seen a good life. 

------------

O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------




 30. Why people get sick
 



A person gets sick because he

drinks too much toddy,

eats food after hair falls into it.

eats too much,

worries all the time, 

walks on a difficult path,

is unable to go to the bathroom, 

eats too many fruits and vegetables,



eats rice with husk on it,

takes a bath as soon as he eats, 

does not sleep,

gets a cold,

stays in the cold wind,

eats dried betel leaf,



desires young women always, 

is constipated, 

carries heavy things, 

sits in the cold sunlight, 

works too hard,

or eats dried betel leaf.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 31. Those who live for ever. 
 



These are famous always:



those who help others, 

those who dig ponds and wells,

just kings,

builders of temples, 

givers of food,



those who give birth to good children, 

warriors who fight and conquer in war, 

those who always help others, 



those with good skills, 

those who give charity,

poets who write epics, 

those who marry chaste women.



Even if their bodies go away on this earth, 

the fame of these people does not disappear. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 32. Even if these people live, they are not really living:
 



people who always live in poverty, 

who are always sick, 

who always eat in the houses of their in-laws, 

who give their wives to others to make money,



who scold others in a good assembly, 

who carry palanquins to make money to live,

who are always worried, 

who can never say good things to others,



who cannot receive guests because of their bad wives, 

and those who go to assemblies without having something to say.

Even if all these people live, they are not really living.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 33. Simple things that help others.
 



Cowdung makes sacred ashes,

an old wall hides people when they need it,

cowdung is food for pigs, 



a strong angry bull plows the land and protects the earth,

a donkey carries burdens.

stone is used to make temples, statues of gods and great palaces,

the wealth of those who have died helps others,



a monkey helps those who catch him and beg,

and a pole holds a lamp so its light spreads.

But do misers ever help others?



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 34. The character of misers
 



Misers search for wealth, find it and bury it like demons,

they do not wear good clothes,

they do not make good food and eat it.

they do not give for charity

but they pay all the money that the king asks

and thieves often steal their money.

If they see a poet, they run and hide,

and they never give any help to astrologers.



There is a proverb, “the miser worries about the expense

if his children eat rice and curry as they want.”



Misers think only of income 

and do not want to give anyone anything.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 35. Where Lakshmi lives 
 



Lakshmi sits on a elephant,

she lives in the water of Ganga,

on a lotus and on the chest of Vishnu, 

she abides with victorious people

and with cultivated people who love art.



She rides on a horse,

stays with those who do not tell lies, 

lives in an auspicious house

and accompanies victory and banners of war.



Lakshmi is always present

in thulasi and vilvam, 

in the blooming kadappa blossom,

and with beautiful women. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 36. The goddess of misfortune 
 



The goddess of misfortune stays with lazy women, 

with women who lie, 

in the shadows of wicked women,

in the smoke of a kiln,

in the fights of people, 

in smoke, 

in the shadows of mean people,



in the dark night, 

with royal people, 

in dark light, 

with passionate people,

in the faces of people who do not pray

in an assembly of angry people,



with compassionless people,

in yogurt at night,

in the liquor of drunkards,

in the shadow of the vilvaa tree, 

in the shop of cheating merchants, 

in a pig, a dog, the powder of acankaram

and swept dust. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 37. Will it change?
 



If you pour good honey into strychnine, 

will it be not bitter?

If you raise a donkey,

will it become a horse?



Even if you raise a small snake with love, 

will it ever give anything except poison?

If you tie a palm branch above a good entrance, 

will it stay without bending, 



If you put a flawed pearl on an ornament

will it make it better?

Even if you add camphor to garlic, 

will that change its smell?



Even if you give much advice to stupid people,

will they learn to behave with respect?



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 38. How can one know?
 



Can you know if someone is an enemy

just seeing the expression on his face?

Can you tell how much it has rained by just looking at plants?

Can you tell how good or bad a person is by the way he behaves?



You can tell the strength of a warrior by how he fights. 

You can know if a person is a scholar by the way he talks.

You can know if someone is one is good by seeing how he behaves. 



You can know the value of a house

when you see it is built with marble.

You can tell someone’s caste by how he talks.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 39. What can be changed
 



If there are cruel animals, 

you can control them with love.

If you have a terrible sickness, 

it can be cured with the right medicines.



You can make even an unfeeling Brahmarakshasi 

and other devils happy and dance,

you can make birds smart so they perform tricks,

you can give life to a corpse,

you can put out a big fire and make it into water,

you can cure a sickness with medicines, 

you can tell the messengers of Yama,

“come another time,”

you can change sand into rope,

but you cannot change the character of bad people.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 40. People who are like animals
 



Those who think their ideas are good

and ignore the advice of others are monkeys.

Those who do not understand what goes on in the assembly are trees. 



Those who give trouble to those who ask for help are barking dogs. 

Those who turn away from the face of a person 

coming in need are nasty donkeys. 



Those who are lazy and sleep in the assembly of elders

are stubborn bulls.

Tricky people who give trouble to those who approach them are scorpions.



O Muruga, you circled your father Iswara to win a mango.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 41. The life of a mean person
 



If a mean person gets a good life 

he becomes proud and refuses to see anyone.

Even if someone gives him good advice, 

he does not listen to it. 



Even if his friends visit him, 

he does not welcome them

and tries to chase them from his home.



Even if good people tell him good news, 

he shows anger and speaks to them without respect. 

Just because one whips a demon with a horsewhip,

will it change?



O Muruga with a neepam garland on your arms

carrying a beautiful spear,



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 42. Bad people
 



A child who does not listen to his parents is a terrible devil.

The mind of a wife who talks against everything without fear

is filled with egotism.



If a servant talks against his boss he is an inauspicious omen.

If a younger brother goes to court asking for the property of his brother

he is bad person.



If an elder brother cheats his younger brother he is a devil.

Those who give loans and get loans from enemies

are Rāhu and Ketu, who do not get along.



O Murugan, you put Brahma in prison

and you told the meaning of om to your father Shiva.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 43. Joining good friends.
 



All the trees that are near a sandalwood tree are fragrant.

A crow that goes near golden Meru mountain looks gold-colored.



All water mixed with milk looks white as milk.

If a cheap stone is on a diamond necklace it looks like a diamond. 



If one wears an emerald necklace, 

the chain next to it looks green.

If one becomes friends with good people, 

he becomes good.



Divine Muruga, 

you are the nephew of Vishnu 

who churned the milky ocean to get nectar

with Mandara mountain.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 44. The strength of fate.
 



Rama went to the forest without being crowned as king. 

Shiva drank poison when all the other gods drank nectar.



Murugan, you conquered all the Asuras 

and released the gods, 

but you took a low hunter’s daughter as your wife.

You put Brahma who created the world in a terrible prison.



Even king Harichandra who never lied was sold off. 

No one is strong enough to defeat fate. 



You are the dear child of Gangadhara 

who danced in the hall in Thillai.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 45. Those who are just 
 



Rama the son of Dasaratha went to the forest obeying his father.

The Pandavas ruled their country obeying Dharma, their elder brother. 



Harischandran obeyed his guru and never told a lie. 

If anyone asked him for charity, Karna never refused them.



Hanuman, the strong one, ruled his kingdom

without hurting anyone.

Nalayini obeyed her husband’s words and is praised

by all in the world.



Muruga, you are the brother of Ganesa

who stays on the banks of all ponds

and in the temple on the way to Mandaivazhi.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 46. One can get only what he is supposed to receive.
 



Even if someone goes to another land on a boat

could he get even one more rupee than what he has?

Even the sparrow in the city flies high —

can it be a colorful eagle?



Even even one puts a bitter vegetable into the Ganga,

will it become sweet?

Even if someone takes one measure of water from the ocean,

will it become four measures?



Even if people run many miles to get away from their sins,

do their sins go away?

Even if you wander about and go to someone for help, 

can you get anything except what is your fate?



You solved the problem of Nakkirar

with your knowledge of Centamiz.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 47. Pride or Egoism. 
 



Strength and beauty lost because of the pride of kings:



the strength of Surabanman, of Ravana, 

of Thudukkaana Kanjan,

all the divine boons that Hiranyan was given, 

the invincible power of Vali, 



all the strength of the hundred brothers of Duriyodhana, 

that which was protected by Madhukadaivar,

the manliness of Maavali,

all the things that Somugan received, 



the pride of Kicaka,

the strength of the Rakshakas of Tiripuram, 

and the beauty of Daksha—

all these were destroyed.

Didn’t they lose their these things because of their arrogance?



You are the handsome son of Shiva 

who burnt Kama with his third eye.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 48. The friendship of good people. 
 



The rabbit on the bright moon 

contracts and grows as the moon waxes and wanes.

Ambal plants wither when their water dries out

and grow when it rains.



Blooming bushes dry out in the summer

and flourish in the rainy season.

The lotus closes at night when the sun has gone

and when the sun rises, it blooms.



If the body becomes weak, 

life also becomes weak,

but if friends get into trouble,

do good people leave them?



O Veelaa, you are the younger brother of Ganesa,

the elephant-faced god, the divine beautiful short one.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 49. These things are good:
 



a child that one gets at a young age, 

grain planted in the month of Purattasi, 

sugarcane planted in the month of Aadi

that grows as tall as an elephant’s tail,



a loan given to honest, compassionate people,

education at the right time that helps in later age,



relationship with a heroic king,

help given to smart people—

all these are not a waste and give good results. 



O Guha wearing a fragrant Neeba garland

and cool pearl garlands on your chest,



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

-----------


 50. These do not help when one needs them.
 



Keeping books in the house without reading them, 

giving something to a stranger thinking 

that it may be returned when one needs it, 



leaving one’s wife to live with the wife of someone else

thinking that it can be permanent, 

a child who wanders

without knowing where it is going, 



a devil who thinks one thing in his mind

and says something else,

and someone who thinks because he has everything

there is no need to worry about the future.



O Guha, you are the beloved 

of the gipsy Valli and Indra’s daughter Devanai 

with beautiful breasts.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 51. Things that will not come back.
 



A frog swallowed by a snake,

sugarcane put in the mouth of an elephant

a crow that stays in a storm, 

a boat caught in a storm,



offerings given to priests in front of others, 

a life that Yama has taken, 

a flood that has overflowed a dam, 

a rabbit caught in the mouth of a hunting dog,



things that one has searched for and put in front of others, 

a house that has burned down,

things that have been taken by a bad king—

all these will not be returned. 



O Guha, you were born to nurture

the country of the Cholas

with its many palaces and maadams where flags fly.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 52. Good actions one should do
 



If someone speaks angrily, 

call them with kind, happy words and talk to them. 

It is better not to say one lie with a good mind, 

than to perform a thousand sacrifices.



It is better to be an enemy to a useless person

than to have a relationship with an angry idiot.

Giving even a little money when someone needs it

is better than giving many presents.



It is better to say you do not have money

than to keep telling a poor person how they could earn money.

It is better to live in poverty and wander about

than to be rich and suffer with sickness.



O Muruga, nephew of Thirumal

who gave his grace and saved Gajendra in the lake

when a crocodile attacked him,



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

-----------




 53. Can these match each other?
 



Even though there are a crore of stars in the sky, 

can they be equal to the moon?

Even if many branches strike together,

can they match sound of a drum?



Even if many piglets join together, 

can they be an elephant calf?

Even if many kotti flower bloom in a pond,

can they match a large lotus flower?



Even if many large mountains join together

can they match golden Meru?

Even if someone gets many useless children, 

can they match one smart child?



O lovely Muruga

with a cock banner and a beautiful spear

in your hand,



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 54. Who can know the value of these things?
 



Only those who wear a fragrant garland know its value. 

Can a stupid monkey know the value of a garland it wears?

Can a childless woman know the preciousness of a child

as well as a mother? 



Only a chaste woman knows the value of a husband—

can a dasi know it?

Can a dog that steals something know its value?



Only those who raise a parrot know its value—

can a cruel cat know?

Only good people know the greatness of great people—

can a stupid man know?



O beautiful Muruga!

The gypsy Valli follows you because you are her beloved, 

and you go to the forest to embrace her.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 55. Preventing bad deeds.
 



A strong crocodile stays in deep water,

protecting lotuses so that no one will come and steal them.

Bees drink honey and live in the hills

so that no one can approach the flowers and take the honey. 



The taazai flowers have thorns 

so that no one can come and pluck them.

Water surrounds many tall sandalwood trees

so they do not become too dry.



Barking dogs are in many houses 

so thieves will not enter them.

There are sinners who use the generosity of others 

but talk badly behind them.



You are the beloved husband of Valli, the gypsy girl 

whose eyes are like a mango slice and kadu.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 56. Prostitutes
 



A house of prostitutes 

is like a noisy flower market.

In the middle of the town where people gamble 

prostitutes with curving eyebrows stand,

wearing gorgeous clothes.



Their breasts are like balls in one’s hands,

their eyes attract the minds of people like a net for fish,

their words are as if written on water,

their love is like lightning and their thighs are snakes.



Their bellies are big but they have no use,

their minds are like stone,

their lips taste like nectar.

their nectar-like mouth is like a painting,

they are like a hole where you throw your wealth

and one should not desire them.



Muruga, you carry a beautiful spear

and killed Suran when he became a tree. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 57. The cruelty of Kaliyuga
 



This is a bad time.



Children do not listen to their mother’s advice,

and get upset with their father,

people scold their good guru,

and do not think at all of true gods, 



and they cheat others saying that devils are gods.

This is a good time for liars.

People obey their wives even if they are scolded by them,

and they do not obey their elders.



Good people suffer and are poor,

mean people become rich, 

warriors who abandon their kings receive honors,

and people help those who scold them.

Sir, this is a good time for gossipers who do not care about the truth.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 58. One’s duty.
 



A father is someone who makes his son a scholar

in front of the assembly. 

A son is someone who learns, become famous

through his education and makes his father proud.



A wife is someone who thinks her husband is god 

and worships him everyday,

a brother is someone who loves his brother like a friend 

and is truthful to him.



A guru is someone who knows all the old sastras 

and teaches them to his disciples.

A sincere disciple is someone who follows all the teachings of his guru. 



You married the beautiful daughter of gypsies 

and your other loving wife is from the sky.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 59. A person is famous because of his good qualities
 



The lotus that blooms in the mud decorates the divine crown of god, 

The pearl that is born in the shining shell adorns the bodies of kings.



The silk thread that comes from a worm used for clothing god,

The saliva of a bee is used for bathing the divine Indra, the king of the gods.



Kosaranai, made from meat, is used as fragrance.

Even if born in low caste, educated people

will be high in an assembly.



Lord Muruga smeared with divine vibhuti, you are wise.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 60. What is not good.
 



If one makes false promises thinking it is right,

it will give bad results.

If one thinks that because a lamp is lit

it cannot burn them, it is wrong.



If a person thinks he is wealthy and does wrong, it will hurt him. 

If one hurts an elephant, even if he has trained it for a long time,

it will kill him.



If someone is enjoying a sweet food and eats too much of it, 

it will make him sick.

If someone does bad things thinking that the king is harmless,

the king will punish him.



O great king, you were born to nourish the Chola country

that is praised even by the gods in the sky.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 61. Justice 
 



One should not give false evidence if someone 

pays him to do it.

Without considering whether someone

is a friend, enemy, stranger, very rich or poor,

one should give evidence impartially.



One should give evidence like a scale that 

does not bend to one side.

This is dharma.



We know, Dharma said, that half of Bhimas’s body is like animal’s.

Sakthi gave milk from her breast and raised you.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 62. Impartiality
 



A person who is without impartiality

and talks to someone, looking at his face, 

is like a monkey on a mountain.



The house where he lives will have vellerukku plants, 

become like a wasteland and be destroyed.

On the earth his relatives will suffer

like the leaves of nelli.

He will not have any children for seven births

Only the evil goddess will live on his face.



The earth goddess will shiver thinking that he is a burden.

People say he surely will go to hell.



You gave the experience of yourself to Arunagirinathar, 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 63. These are needed for people
 



Even if a woman has much obedience

if she does not have breasts, 

she will not really be a woman.



Even if good scholars live 

where there are no other scholars, 

they will not forget manners.



You are the king of the Chola country 

filled with temples, ponds and forts.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 64. One can not measure these things:
 



The depth of the ocean, 

the waves that roll on the sea,

how long a person may live,

the thoughts of kings,

the luck of men,

the height and the length of the sky,



the seven mountains of the earth,

the many creatures, 

the kings that rule the earth,

the power of mountains,

the actions of Eswara,

the drops of cold rain,



the poems that a good Tamil poet recites, 

the thoughts in the mind of a Siddha,

and the thoughts in the minds of women—

can anyone understand and measure these things?



Muruga, you are the nephew of Vishnu

on whose chest beautiful Lakshmi stays.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 65. Do not desire other men’s wives
 



Lecherous men who desire other men’s wives

do not have compassion, are not truthful,

have no shame, are without courage in war.



They are not hindered by darkness when they go out,

don’t have friendship, knowledge, stability,

or a sense of tradition.



They have no dharma, they never become rich,

they are brave enough to wander about in the night,

and they have no one who comes to them

or community, friendship or dignity.



They do not know how to be pleasant to others,

and when they are young they have no strength.

They do not have the knowledge 

that would help them reach moksha.



O lord, you wear on your chest ornaments

and fragrant garlands of various flowers.

You give your grace to all.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------
 
66.    Keeping one’s respect  
 



 If you a burden to a stone, it will not bend. 

Even if his escort does not help him, 

a warrior will not lose the war. 



Even if every day a tiger gets into trouble, 

its skin will not spoil.

Even if good people become old, 

they will not become bad people.



Even at the time of its death,

a deer will not lose its hair. 

Even if danger comes, 

a chaste woman will not do wrong deeds. 



Even though Nakkeerar wanted to be a devotee of Shiva, 

he did not have enough devotion to keep him from opposing the god.



Someone who does not look for reasons will not get answers.

Even if someone makes good tasty food

if there is not ghee in it, it is not good. 



Even though many flowers bloom in a pond, 

if there are no lotuses, the pond does not have beauty.

Even if one does much worship, if he does not have devotion

there is no benefit. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


  67. Divine grace.
 



If Lakshmi gives her grace, all will live happily.

All the places that they go will be wonderful for them. 



The people who listen to their words,

will accept what they say.

and their small wealth will increase like flood of a river.

Those who did not be respect them before, 

will become their friends.



They will be respected among their people.

Everyday people will praise them

and even their enemies will become their friends.

Whatever they say will not be wrong.



Whatever they want, they will get

and they will have many skills.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 68. Friendship
 



When sun rises, the lotus blooms with joy.

When it sees a dark cloud,

the beautiful peacock opens its wings and dances. 

How does this friendship come about?



When moon rises, kumudam flowers bloom happily.

When the day dawns, the rooster crows happily.

Wherever a generous rich man lives, love will abide.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

-----------


 69. Knowing the right time to do actions
 



A crow can defeat its enemy, the owl, its enemy in the daytime.

Kings crowned with golden crowns will achieve

success if they act at the proper time.



Clouds know the right time for crops to grow

and pour abundant rain.

Wise people help the poor at the time they are in need.



The beautiful cuckoo bird sings happily knowing spring has come. 

Good people do the things they want to do without hesitation

on the day they have chosen.



Isn’t it true that good things happen in the morning

and bad things in the evening? 



Muruga, you are the son-in-law of Vishnu

whose chest holds the beautiful Lakshmi on a lotus.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 70. Knowing the right places to act.
 



Can a chariot that runs on the ground sail on the wide ocean?

Can a ship that sails on the ocean run on the ground?

Can an elephant fight with an angry crocodile?



Can Garuda conquer the snake that lives

on the hair decorated with fragrant flowers of lord Shiva?

Can people enter without fear a forest where tigers live?



What can the enmity of bad people do 

if they live with the support of good and rich people?

Auvai truly said one should be make friends with people 

after knowing their qualities.



The Pandavas conquered the Kauravas

because they received the help of Krishna who plays a flute

and wears fragrant flowers.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 71. The body is not permanent
 



The great ones like Manu or Mandatha and others

lived on the earth and all passed away.

There is not one who could keep what they had gained—

nothing is given back when someone dies.



When people think that they will live in this world 

forever trusting their body,

it is like using old bulls to plow trusting

that they will be as strong as when they were young.



Instead of thinking that they should worship

the feet of God with love to reach moksha,

people just desire to live happily in this world. 



The only enemy for a man is passion for women.

Is there any other enemy a man can have?



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 72. The mother-in-law’s home.
 



If a son-in-law goes to his mother-in-law’s home

he is treated very well.

Feasts are cooked with ghee, milk, yogurt

and sweets are given to him.



Much healthy food is served

and he is given an oil bath.

All day they give him betal nut and leaf,



but if he stays too long, they do not respect him.

They mock him

and his mother-in-law will tell him to go find a job. 



His wife will treat him as if he were a small stick

saying, “Isn’t he stupider than other stupid people?”



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 73. Wealth does not stay.
 



Even land filled with water and boats

can become hot sand where boats cannot float.

The deep part of a river can become shallow,

while the shallow places can become deep.



Good land can become a forest

and a forest can become good land.

A cart can roll over and land upside down.

A market that sells things can be filled with merchandise,

but the same day everything can be sold.



A long day will become night,

and when night leaves, it will become morning.

Wealthy people can become poor

and poor people can become rich. 

Life always changes and is fickle.



The cattle, house, things, children, wealth

and jewels that someone owns

can all one day turn into a dream. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 74. The Benefit of being born.
 



A person born in this world

should be someone who can be praised as a good person. 

Otherwise he should be someone who can be called a wise

or clever man.



All the directions should praise someone

saying that he is a strong hero.

One should give to beggars without saying no to them. 



One should learn to be a scholar.

Some lucky people become respected by their knowledge



You fought with Suran

making the seven oceans stormy and the mountains shake, 

and Suran’s crowns were crushed. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 75. Dasis (Prostitutes)
 



If rich people come to a dasi’s home,

they are treated as dearer than life.

They are told, “If I do not see you, 

I cannot even eat anything.”



The dasi stays with them and is happy,

She says, “I really love you!”

and gives him betal leaf, 

pretending she enjoys being with him.



She say pleasant words but later she scolds him 

and chases him back to his own house. 



Can one trust these dasis who are wicked.

How could one believe them?



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 76. Strength
 



The strength of a hero is his spear and bow,

the beauty of a house is a good wife, 

the beauty of poems is their meaning,

the strength of women is their chastity, 

and the power of words is truth.



The strength of one’s body is the back and chest,

the wisdom of an assembly is intelligent words,

the work of dasis is searching for men,

the health of an old person is only by eating healthy food,

and the power of heroes is heroism. 



The flourishing of a field is the water it receives,

the power of a country is the rule of a just king, 

the power of an army is its elephants,

the property of people is their children, 

and the power of a city is its good people.



O Guha, you are the lover of the divine Devanai

and Valli whose eyes are adorned with kohl.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 77. Poverty
 



If someone becomes poor, his mother will blame him,

his wife will not respect him,

and if he says anything, he is considered a bad person. 



Always he feels unhappy and lacks mental courage.

he will be afraid of going to an assembly of scholars, 

and if he sees rich people, he will be ashamed. 



The firmness that makes one brave will be lessened.

If guests come, he will not know what to do,

and the whole world will blame him. 



If he goes near elder people and asks something,

they may not answer.

This is the worst problem one can have.

O Guha, g ive me your grace so that I never have this failing. 



You climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 78. Bad actions 
 



In a small pond where elephants can only look at their shadow, 

a frog can go and play.

Even a if thousand people get together and build a house,

someone will immediately find fault with it.



In the places where good people eat, 

flies should be chased away.

If a calf goes to drink milk from its mother, 

the cowherd should not stop it.



Whenever kings with armies do something good,

mean people find faults with it.

Isn’t it a fox that made a lion and a strong bull fight?



O Guha, you embraced Devanai

more beautiful than a doe.

You give your grace to all.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



Strong people do not lose



79. Even if a river becomes dry,

the spring feeding it gives sweet water.

Even when Rahu hides it,

the sun still shines and gives light. 



Even if the moon wanes to a crescent, 

it removes the darkness of the world.

Even if a field becomes dry 

small sparrows get food from it. 



Even if a spendthrift becomes poor, 

if anyone comes and asks money from him, 

he will help them without saying no.



O Guha, you are the brave one 

who killed Suran, your enemy.

You hold a beautiful spear.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 80. People without help
 



Those who have no relatives and friends do not get help.

If a person does not have principles, he does not have a good life.

If someone is not compassionate he does not get any friends.

The poor who do not have money cannot visit dasis.



If a king does not have a country, he is not a king.

If people do not eat on time, they will get sick.

If someone does not tell the truth 

there is no dharma for him.

If someone does not make efforts to earn,

he cannot get wealth.



A person who does not get tired,

will not be afraid to do any act.

If someone has good character,

enemies cannot hurt him.



O Murugan, you, the nephew of Vishnu,

shot arrows at Vali.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 81. This is better than that 
 



It is better to beg in many houses 

than to receive alms from those who are not generous. 

It is better to go hungry 

than to go to a house where the host 

does not receive you kindly. 



It is better to conquer a rabbit 

than to fight with an elephant and be defeated. 

It is better to be a saint 

than to love a woman who does not know how to love.



It is better to be friendly to a snake 

than to be friendly with those who have no fear of hurting you.

It is better to die than not to help Brahmins 

when they are in trouble. 



It is better to stay alone and suffer 

than live with cheating people.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 82. Unstable things.
 



One should not think these things are stable:



the army that a king depends on, 

small ponds that resemble rivers,

relationships with prostitutes,

being friendly with bad people,

being friendly with snakes,

playing in deep water,



compassion shown to enemies,

worry about relatives who are unkind, 

loving someone else’s wife, 

the flooding of a river,



listening to bad advice,

being friends with a rutting elephant, 

believing a person who pretends to speak the truth.

All these things will not always be same

and one should not trust them. 



O Guha, when the gods imprisoned by the Asuras

praised you, saying, “There is no other help for us except you!”

you freed them.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.




 83. The actions of good and bad poets.
 



Cuckoo birds go to a garden 

and search avidly for mangoes

while dark crows search only for bitter fruits

no matter what other fruits are there.



Bees with lined bodies always look for honey in lotus flowers.

However many fragrant things are there,

a dung beatle goes to dirty things.



Good poets search, read and enjoy poems

with good meanings,

but bad poets read Tamil poems and look for faults in them.



O lord, you embrace the gipsy Valli and Deyvanai 

whose eyes are beautiful as dark kaavi flowers.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 84. These actions are normal:
 



a tiger hiding,

large clouds disappearing, 

a bow bending,

goats running away when chased by other animals,

bulls falling when they jumping around, 



bamboo bending, 

elder people agreeing,

sages being kind to others,

a good army retreating, 

heroes losing, 

the frontline of an army being afraid,



snakes slithering,

flowers withering,

the flute of a cowherd being loud.

These are all natural actions.



O Muruga, the younger brother of Ganesa,

circled Shiva for a mango and received it.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 85. Divine actions. A story 
 



A hunter saw two doves sitting on a tree

and, wanting to get one of them,

he fitted an arrow to his bow and began to bend it.

The dove tried to fly away,

but could not because it saw a rajaali eagle flying in the sky.

When a snake suddenly bit the hunter’s foot,

the poison made him falland his arrow went astray,

hitting the eagle. Thus the dove was saved.



All these things happened because Shiva caused them to take place.

Such things cannot be done just because one wishes.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.




 86. How to compose poems.
 



Sounds, asai, talai, line and todai should not be confused.

Poems should have all the ten qualities that they need.

They should sound sweet and their words should be fitting.



Like the Kural, they should have deep and good meanings.

All the categories of poems should all sound correct.

Poems should have all the poetic ornaments appropriate for poetry.



The sound of a poem should make our hearts happy

and when we read it, it should be musical.
Poets composing poetry should know all these rules.



O Muruga, you are the son of Shiva

the Kangalan, who carries an axe in his beautiful hand.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 87. The way one should receive vibhuti (holy ashes)
 



If one receive holy ashes,

whether one is riding on a horse, 

going in a palanquin, 

staying in a great ambalam,

or sitting in a porch, 



he should stand beneath the one who gives them.

If he receives the ashes with his hands

with three fingers, it will give him strength.



Wherever one receives vibhuti,

even if it is a difficult street or a dirty place, 

if he wears it, he will attain moksha

but if he refuses it he will go to hell.



O lord of the earth married

to the lovely-eyed gypsy Valli,



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 88. How one should wear vibhuti.
 



When someone is going to wear vibhuti, 

he should worship the lord saying, “Shiva, Shiva,”

and take it with love. 

It should not be spilled.

He should look upwards

and smear it on from the ears to shoulders.



He should use three fingers

to put it on his forehead.

If he prays to the lord and wears it, 

no karma will come to him.

His body will be clean.



The lord will enter his house and bless his family,

and they will not have troubles.

They will attain moksha and become part of Shiva and Shakthi.



O Muruga you are the nephew of lord Vishnu

who churned the milky ocean with the gods.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.




 89. Useless parts of one’s body.
 



Feet that do not circle the temples of gods, 

eyes that do not see the god,

a mind that does not think of the lotus feet of the lord, 



ears that do not listen to the Agamas and Puranas,

a head that does not bow and worship the gods,

hands that do not serve the gods,



a mouth that does not praise the gods, 

and a body that does not bathe in pilgrimage water.

What is the use of being born in this world 

if a person does not do these things.



O Muruga, you threw your beautiful spear 

and split open the chest of Suran who came as a horse.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 90. Mixing bad things with good things.
 



If an ugly girl has a beautiful younger sister,

will she be happy?



If a lovely sheep has a growth on its neck

what is its use?



If there is moss in good water,

how can it be pure?



If poison is mixed with the nectar that gods eat,

of what use is the nectar?



If an iron rod becomes rusted

of what use is it?



If a beautiful bud blossoms on a tall tree,

how can one get it?



If husk is mixed with good rice

what is the use of the rice?



If bad children are born to a good mother, 

what is the use of those children?



Even if bad people are born with smart people

they will not become smart.



O Muruga, you were born as the son of Shiva

who bent the great golden Meru mountain as a bow.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 91. The shaft of an axe
 



A good smith can cut iron,

but if there is a wood sliver in the axe, 

it will not work properly.



A small sparrow can fly near other birds,

make noise and chase them away.

A deer raised with love

can tell if other deer are good.



If bad relatives enter a good house, 

the good house will be destroyed. 



Just as a house can be destroyed 

only because of bad relatives,

a city can be destroyed

only because bad people live in it.



You are the brother of strong elephant-headed Ganesa, 

who went around his father Shiva

and received the mango.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

-----------


 92. Working for a useless cause.
 



A crow will take care of the egg of a cuckoo bird.



If people adopt a child born to bad people

saying it is their child and raise it, kissing it with love,

they are stupid. 



Those who do not sleep and work hard 

become rich and have a safe life. 

They do not ask money from others.



O Guha, you fought with the Suran, destroyed him

and helped the gods.



You climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 93. Waste
 



These things are wasted:



ghee put in a fire, 

tamarind put a river,

milk put in a good pot that is overturned,

the worship of devils,



cotton thrown into fire,

fragrant water poured on mud, 

a moon that shines in a terrible forest, 

a ship that caught in a cyclone—

the things are wasted.



Water is poured on poor crops,

things given to prostitutes,

help given to bad people—

these are of no use. 



O Muruga, the son of the daughter of Himalaya,

you are a beautiful prattling child. 



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 94. People one should not leave:
 



one’s mother and other relatives,

friends one has known know for a long time, 

a king who has escaped from his enemies,

kind elders whom they know, 

those who trust them,

poor people,

Brahmins who come for help,

refugees,

those who have helped at a time of danger,

and servants who have always helped them. 

One should protect all these people and not leave them.



O Saravana, you carry in your hands, 

a strong spear and a sweet rooster

and you ride a beautiful peacock.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


  95. Things that one should not do.
 



One should not give food to others

when one’s relatives are hungry,

One should not give up the friendship of faultless elders

and make friends with mean people.



When one has a good wife at home,

one should not go to a prostitute and enjoy himself,

One should not give food to bad people

when there are good people who are hungry,



One should not make friendship with new people,

leaving old friends.



People who do these things

are like those who try to cross a river,

letting go of an elephant’s tail

and holding a fox’s tail instead.



Lord, you wear on your chest

a kadappa garland swarming with bees

and maalikaa ornaments.

You give grace to all.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 96. How good people live.
 



Good people live happily with their brothers.

They get good children,

eat only after giving alms to the poor

and worship their ancestors.



They earn wealth and give to God,

they sacrifice their things for others, 

they forgive others’ mistakes

and they do not get angry.



They are polite to others and bow to them, 

and they speak good words,



All these things that people do will bring only goodness.



O Muruga, you came and helped Nakkirar

when he was upset and could not answer the king.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 97. Protecting those who come for refuge. 
 



When a dog could not swim a river, 

Dharma saved him and helped him cross. 

Arjuna fought with Vishnu to save a fish

that asked him for refuge. 



When a dove asked for refuge,

king Sibi gave the flesh of his body.

Dadhisi gave his backbone 

to protect to save the gods from the Asuras.



Compassionate people help others,

saying sweet words and giving even their lives

to those in trouble.



O Muruga, you split open the bodies of Singamugan, Tharugan, 

and cruel Kraunja.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.



------------


 98. Suitable and unsuitable.
 



If one mixes honey with milk it tastes very good, 

but if one mixes water with milk, what will happen?

If one puts a pearl with corals it will be beautiful,

but if you put it with cut crystals, how will it be?



If a sheep joins the army of a king

instead of an elephant, what will happen?

Instead of putting nine jewels on an ornament

if one puts only a white stone, what is the use?



Instead of joining young people with young ones, 

what is the use of joining them with old people?

Instead of joining elders with good people, 

what is the use of joining bad people with them? 



O Muruga, you, the beloved of Deyvanai and Valli,

are adorned with ornaments.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 99. The qualities of good people:
 



Giving food to the poor,

listening to elders,

giving refuge to those who come to them seeking it.

joining with good people,

listening to their teachers.,



keeping their promises,

worshiping the gods, 

being truthful even in adversity,



helping kings.

and staying with their wives

even if their relationship is like water on a lotus leaf.

All these actions are good—thus say elders.



O Muruga you went around the world on a peacock in an instant.



O Guha, you climb on a peacock and play.

You, Kumaresan, stay on a high hill

covered with fields and flourishing with green grass.

------------


 100. The benefit of reading these poems
 



Murugan rides on a peacock carrying a spear. 

He likes to live on hills.

He became a Vengai tree for Valli.

He is the army captain of the gods.



He is the dear son of Uma who speaks sweetly. 

He is the son of Shiva.

He is the son of Ganga.

He is the younger brother of Ganesha.

He is the lord of wise knowledge. 

He is the god of Avinankudi. 

He is Kumaresan of Pulvayal.



Those who hear and learn

these hundred poems of asiriya viruttham

that are written according to the rules of poetry

will receive knowledge, gain high positions,

and attain moksha.



SUBHAM.



This file was last revised on 2 Jan. 2022 

Feel free to send the corrections to the webmasters (pmadurai AT gmail.com) 



